you know a lot of people say oh you know
we're leaving all this debt to our
grandkids grandkids don't have to pay it
I mean they can leave people used to ask
me you know where do you stand on a wall
and the main reason I was against it is
I said you know if we Build That Wall it
can be used to keep the Americans in
there's no way out you know until
there's a violent revolution during
periods of extreme economic uncertainty
like the one that we're living through
right now I really think it's incumbent
upon all of us as individuals to face
the situation head on and develop a
thesis for how to navigate that kind of
period well but most people get
overwhelmed and they shut down do not
let that be you the intelligent path
forward is always a combination of
information and action to that end I
bring you Peter Schiff the man who
believes the economy is headed towards a
cliff but has a plan for how we get off
the bus before the inevitable crash
are we headed towards a recession that's
going to be worse than 2008.
I think so in fact I think we're
actually in recession although by the
time they write the history books on
this era it it may be considered a
depression
I think that the numbers that we get
from the government are not accurate by
Design so I don't really think that the
economy is growing in any real sense I I
think that the way they uh compute the
numbers I think is deceiving
I think that for most Americans their
standard of living is declining
I I I don't think the economy is really
getting bigger I think we're spending
more
and we're borrowing more and going
deeper into debt we're paying more for
everything we buy and a lot of that
consumption ends up feeding into the GDP
and so we get a bigger GDP number and we
think oh that means the economy is
growing but I think it's all being
distorted by the inflation and the debt
meanwhile individuals that are living in
the economy are struggling their cost of
living is going up you have a record
increase in the number of people holding
multiple jobs not just two jobs but
three jobs or more and they still can't
make ends meet you've got record credit
card debt which is now over a trillion
dollars uh at first time ever and we
almost have two trillion in student loan
debt I mean that has just exploded uh
and all sorts of debt if we really had a
growing economy people would be getting
out of debt right well that that's what
happens when when you're doing well you
you pay off your debt you build up your
savings the savings rate has collapsed
in the last couple years that's not a
sign of economic strength that's
desperation people are tapping into
whatever savings they have left just to
make ends meet
um you know if you look at Joe Biden's
popularity he's as unpopular as any
sitting president since Jimmy Carter
so you know that's Quite a feat but if
you remember when Jimmy Carter was
President things were pretty bad right
you had you know the misery index High
inflation High interest rates high
unemployment you have to go back to that
time period you'll find an incumbent
president this unpopular so so what does
that tell you because normally it's it
you know you vote your pocketbook if the
economy were really strong voters
wouldn't care if uh Biden was falling
asleep and meetings or you know couldn't
remember you know who he was married to
or where he was given his speech if
people were feeling good about
themselves and their economy they would
they would they would credit Joe Biden
the fact that he's so unpopular is more
a function of how bad the economy is and
no matter how much he wants to pretend
that it's doing well uh the poll numbers
uh display the opposite and so does uh
everything else with economic reality I
mean we have record budget deficits if
times were good the government would be
having running smaller deficits they
would be collecting more taxes they they
wouldn't be spending as much on on on
you know government assistance our trade
deficits are at record highs if we had a
booming economy we'd be making more
stuff we'd be exporting that stuff or
we'd be importing less because we would
just consume what we produced ourselves
but our economy is really shrinking and
that's why we're on life support we're
dependent on Foreigners for all the
goods that we can't produce and we have
to pay for it on credit because we don't
have the real incomes or the savings to
afford it so I think that answer is
going to be jarring for people because
for a lot of them things seem fine the
they in fact one thing that I've heard
people criticize you for is you've been
saying for years now that we're going to
get hyperinflation but it hasn't come
yet and I think a lot of people are
going to say depression we're not in a
depression yet for sure so the the
economy Works in a certain way there are
physics to it so what is it that you see
that makes a recession or depression
either happening now or inevitable what
do you see that they're missing
yeah first of all I don't think we're in
a depression now as far as the economic
conditions I said that by the time the
historians look back on this time period
uh this could be the beginning of that
depression because I think that
depression is in our future really not
in our past and the way we've been kind
of holding back the tides of depression
is through debt and inflation and so
we've been you know kicking the can down
the road but we're really sowing the
seeds of the future depression that I
believe the time period we're in now
will just be lumped in with it right not
like it's you know it's this is the
earlier stages of of that prolonged
period that is really going to coincide
with
um you know having to come to terms with
all the mistakes that we've made in the
past it's like the chickens coming home
to roost uh because of bad monetary and
fiscal policy that go back you know for
decades uh we're in a huge hole and it
isn't going to be easy to get out of it
and the the time period uh uh where
we're going to get out of it that's you
know it's going to be hard times you
know and the government is in a position
to make those times a lot harder so I
you know that's a wild card as to how
the government is going to react to this
unfolding crisis and how much worse they
might make it be now as far as
hyperinflation yeah I was talking about
a hyperinflation scenario
back in you know the early days of the
2008 financial crisis
based on the way the government reacted
to that with quantitative easing and I
knew that the road that we were going
down could lead to hyperinflation now I
always said that that was a worst case
scenario I never said hey it's it's for
sure but of course you know the media
everybody picks up on my warnings of
hyperinflation I still think that that
you know hasn't been taken off the table
and the the odds of that are actually
greater now than they were when I first
started warning about it but I always
said that look that's the worst case
scenario you destroy your currency
completely where you're talking Weimar
Republic Zimbabwe
but what I did say was inevitable was
very high inflation and we've just
started to experience that in recent
years and I don't think that's over I
mean I think we're going to see higher
inflation right now the high water mark
for year-over-year CPI was just over
nine percent that's not going to cap
this we're going to go into the double
digits uh and the first digit might not
be a one you know that now that still
wouldn't be hyperinflation right if we
have 20 inflation that's not
hyperinflation right that's curl up in a
fetal position and suck your thumb and
cry yourself to sleep territory it's bad
but also
if you if you compare what we have now I
guess everybody wants to say look it's
not that bad because look how much worse
it was in the 70s where we had inflation
10 11 12 percent for several years
what people don't understand is that
you're comparing apples to oranges
because the CPI that was in use in the
70s is not the same CPI that we use
today hold on one second we're gonna
have to start teasing this apart for
people because uh there's you have so
much knowledge I think that people don't
necessarily understand the physics of
the situation so I want to talk about
you talked about the seeds of the
depression I think inflation is going to
be one of those maybe the most important
and so what I want to talk about is so
you mentioned quantitative easing
quantitative easing so we come into the
2008 financial crisis and
um not knowing that the government is
just going to print its way out of this
um I certainly didn't understand what
the the reaction was going to be the
same thing for me happened when we went
into covet I didn't understand that the
government was going to print their way
out of this now as they what does it
mean to quantitatively ease a situation
why does that become problematic and am
I right that that is the most important
seed that sows your destruction in terms
of inflation
yeah well first of all when they print
their way out of a short-term problem
they print their way into an even larger
long-term problem which is what they did
now quantitative easing is just a
euphemism it's a better sounding name
for something that's really bad which is
inflation
so quantitative easing is when the
government prints money
and buys government bonds
now that's inflation by definition by
classic definition inflation is when you
expand the supply of money how is the
money supply
expanded by the purchase of debt the
Central Bank buys government debt and
creates the money to pay for it that's
the mechanism in the United States where
the money supply grows and and so that's
just inflation so quantitative easing
was inflation so when when Ben Bernanke
first launched quantitative easing in
2009 as a way to stimulate the economy
he really said look let's create a bunch
of inflation to stimulate the economy
now he didn't want to say that because
if he went out and told the public our
solution to this financial crisis is to
create inflation people would have said
but wait a minute I don't want inflation
I don't want my cost of living to go up
that doesn't sound like a good solution
is that all you got you know you got
something else so if basically they
dress it up and they say no no what
we're doing is quantitative easing see
that doesn't sound so bad right and so
that's how they got the public to
swallow more inflation is that they they
wrapped it up in in the trappings of of
quantitative easing but that's all it
was
now the reason that we didn't get real
big increases in the CPI until really
after covet
was that there were a lot of forces in
the economy at that time that were
pushing prices down
and had the government not Unleashed all
this inflation we would have seen prices
fall I mean they never actually fell
during any year but had the government
not done that I'm pretty sure that
prices would have gone down and the cost
of living would have would have been
lower now a lot of these politicians or
Keynesian economists say that's terrible
oh that's deflation that's really a bad
deal we don't want that that's that's BS
if prices go down that is good for the
consumer that provides relief because
now the cost of living is lower you
don't need as much money to buy food you
don't need as much money uh to buy
energy you have more money left over to
buy other things you don't have to go
into debt to pay for things and
following prices is even good for
business as long as their costs are
falling in line with their prices they
maintain their margins and now they can
sell more they make it up on volume
because when prices are lower their
customers can buy more stuff so
everybody wins from falling prices but
the government doesn't want that and so
it was able to stop that by by
unleashing inflation
can I say it a different way I want to
see if if I'm understanding this right
the following statement will be true the
government actually does want falling
prices because they want to tax that
falling price in the form of inflation
but if they don't have the falling
prices when they do inflation people
will really feel it so for instance if
prices were actually going down by two
percent they inflate by three percent
they now get five percent inflation but
I only feel three percent of it so now
as the government I'm able to really
take advantage of those falling prices
you know you hit the nail on the head
and that's GLA I'm glad that you
actually picked up on that because
inflation is a tax
and people just don't realize it because
the government blames it on greedy
corporations on Putin on OPEC on on
everybody but themselves but it is a
hidden tax and the easiest way to hide
it is if you have a productive economy
that otherwise would reduce prices
because if prices were going to go down
let's say by five percent and they
create you know five percent inflation
so that prices remain the same nobody
realizes how much worse off they are
because the government stole something
they never had the free market was going
to deliver that benefit and the
government took it see what everybody
has to understand is every dime that the
government spends must be paid for by
the public one way or another now the
traditional way to pay for it is with
taxes the government wants to spend
money on the military they want to spend
money you know uh on on uh you know
Social Security or Medicare or whatever
they're doing
uh they need to take collect taxes
because the government doesn't have any
real money because the government
doesn't really produce anything it only
has the money it takes from the private
sector and then it takes that money from
one person and gives it to somebody else
they have to take it first well if they
don't take it through taxation how do
they get it well they print it they sell
bonds to the Federal Reserve the Federal
Reserve buys those bonds and puts money
into the government's checking account
and then the government just spends that
but when the government spends that
money what it does is it reduces the
value of the money that already exists
so everybody's paycheck is diminished in
value everybody's savings are diminished
because now prices go up because you
have more money in the economy without
new production to give that new money
value and that that increase in price
that is a result of this deficit
spending in money printing is basically
a tax but the but the people don't
realize they've been taxed so the
politicians love it because they can
pretend that the voters getting
something for nothing because the voter
doesn't make the connection between the
price hikes and if the economy is really
you know booming so that prices are
dropping you don't even notice the price
hikes but now the problem is we've
created so much money especially after
covid and all the money we printed there
which was you know off the charts you
know crazy during those years
uh we now have so much money in the
pipeline and the economy is now being uh
you know crippled by more regulation and
other things that are making it less
productive uh we're seeing much greater
upward pressure on prices but I tried to
make the point earlier is that we would
have even seen more uh uh movement in
the CPI earlier if it wasn't rigged I I
started to say that the the CPI we had
in the 70s is not the same CPI we have
now because in the 1990s they they
changed it all they changed the
methodology for computing price
increases and their goal was to have a
lower CPI because they claim that the
CPI was overstating inflation and so
they decided to fix it you know they
fixed it you know like you would rig you
know a sporting event you know the fix
is in but if you measured the prices
that we saw the increases in 2021 2022
if you use the 1970 CPI and then took
the prices that we were living through
they were double-digit I mean we were
probably the year that we had nine
percent it was probably 18 I mean that
year yeah yeah that was probably that
was worse than any year of the the 1970s
or early 1980s that's how bad it was
all right so really fast I want people
to understand so CPI Consumer Price
Index it's a basket of goods that
economists look at and say these are
representative of what things cost now
if you change the items in that basket
to ones that have gone down or stayed
the same you can make it seem like
everything is okay so you actually can
go back and look at what was the 1970s
basket of goods that they were using use
that exact same basket and and do an
Apples to Apples comparison is anybody
doing that like can I go somewhere
online and see Shadow stats yeah they've
been doing that for a long time uh
that's the website
but when they change that back in the
70s it was the same basket and they just
said what did it cost last year and what
is all that exact same stuff cost this
year but now they don't do that they
change the basket they take stuff out
that's gone up they put stuff in that
didn't go up as much they adjusted uh
for a so-called quality improvements oh
that's a much higher quality than the
one you bought last year so let's make
the price go down but it's subjective
you know is it really better I mean and
a lot of times the quality goes down I
don't think they ever subtract for
falling quality it's like a one-way
Street they just assume everything is
getting better when in many cases people
are substituting lower quality
ingredients you know or stuff that used
to be included
a classic would be Airline people would
buy an airline ticket and you know they
got their seat they could get uh food
they can get a pillow they could get a
blanket they you know they could carry
on stuff now all of a sudden all that's
extra it's not part of the airfare
anymore you want to pick your own seat
that's extra you want to check luggage
that's extra you want you want a blanket
that costs more right all this stuff now
are add-ons you know that's not part of
the the CPI but I think if you look at
some of the other measures like
um where the government uses uh personal
consumption expenditures there you have
lots of hedonics where they just
basically say oh if if hamburger gets I
mean a steak gets too expensive well
we'll just kick out steak and we'll
we'll put hamburger in there because you
know we'll just assume people stop
eating steak and they settle for
hamburger and so we can pretend that the
price didn't go up but the quality is
going down I wanna I wanna eat steak I
can't afford it and so I'm stuck with
hamburger and according to the
government that means there's no
inflation I mean by that logic if I have
to give up hamburger and start eating
dog food because I can't afford a
hamburger anymore as far as the
government's concerned there's no
problem because I'm still eating but you
know I don't like having to eat dog food
I'd rather eat people food but this is
how the whole thing is rigged you know
the government again they're taxing us
through inflation and so then they're
lying to us about how bad it is and the
ultimate irony is all the years that the
Fed was printing all this money creating
all this inflation they were pointing to
a rigged CPI that was less than two
percent and they said we need it higher
we don't have enough inflation and that
was the justification for continuously
creating more inflation because they
theoretically said we need to get up to
two percent when in reality we were
already way above two percent but
there's no matter there's nothing
magical about two percent one percent is
better than two percent if you have one
percent you don't try to get up to two
percent you try to go down to zero or
negative one you know lower prices are
better than Rising prices only an idiot
Economist or a central Banker or maybe
somebody's Wall Street people
could believe that Rising prices are
good or that prices that go up by two
percent every year constitute price
stability that's not stability that's a
continuous increase in price stable
means the prices don't change
you can reboot your life your health
even your career anything you want all
you need is discipline I can teach you
the tactics that I learned while growing
a billion dollar business that will
allow you to see your goals through
whether you want better health stronger
relationships a more successful career
any of that is possible with the mindset
and business programs and impact Theory
University join the thousands of
students who have already accomplished
amazing things tap now for a free trial
and get started today
it's interesting so I can actually give
you the logic I know because this is how
I used to think of it as to why people
either there's a natural inclination to
believe that two percent makes sense or
that we're brainwashed to believe it but
my thinking used to be around it's it's
a movement of money thing like you need
to get velocity you need to get people
that are spending money and I actually
wrote this down as a question I wanted
to ask you in the research you ended up
answering it so I know what your
punchline is but my thinking was well
wait a second at two percent inflation
you are incentivizing people to spend
their money now you can say that that's
actually a moral hazard and that you
don't want to incentivize people to
spend their money that you actually want
to incentivize them to save it but if
our economy is built around people
spending money
then knowing that my money is going to
be worth a little bit less a year from
now than it is today ah it gets me to go
in it sort of greases the wheels and
gets people spending money uh now I know
what the punchline is but just so people
hear it why is that a fallacy why is it
a fallacy to believe that if prices are
going down that people won't just turn
into Scrooge McDuck storing their money
away and freezing up the economy
so first of all the fact that we have an
economy that is based on spending that's
the problem that's part of the bubble we
have a bubble economy a legitimate
economy would not be based on spending
it would be based on savings and and
production you don't have to encourage
people to spend everybody wants to spend
I mean that's how we you know gratify
ourselves we want things everybody wants
stuff right and so everybody would spend
I mean I have young kids I mean they
would spend constantly if I didn't stop
them I mean they don't need
encouragement I mean I have a wife you
know see that's you know I don't have to
encourage her to spend I got to do
everything I can to stop it right so
um spending doesn't have to be
encouraged right because that's delayed
gratification savings
needs to be encouraged do without what
you want don't don't have it right now
wait delay your gratification so you
need to encourage that and the market
does that with interest and other ways
of rewarding people for saving but when
interest rates were at zero you know and
inflation was above zero we were
punishing people for saving we were
punishing people for doing exactly what
they need to do because what makes a
real economy grow
is savings because savings is what
finances capital investment capital
investment is what leads to increasing
productivity and higher living standards
so everybody wants to buy that's that
that's that just comes naturally we all
want stuff so we don't need to we don't
need to encourage that but the idea that
if prices fall that people will stop
spending and therefore prices need to
rise to encourage spending is pure BS
people are going to spend anyway but
they're actually more likely to spend if
prices are going down than if prices are
going up and and here's why with the
with these uh keynesians you know try to
sell this this nonsense that if I think
the price is going to go down I'm just
not going to buy it I'm going to wait to
get it cheaper
and therefore no one's going to buy
because we're all going to be sitting
back waiting for a better deal
uh and that is nonsense people buy
things when they want them and the proof
of that is all around us uh cell phones
you know the the first cell phone was
probably two three thousand dollars you
know before we well there used to be a
car phone but when you could when you
finally got a portable phone if you
remember you know from Wall Street
Gordon gecko's got this huge thing you
know uh that he's holding by his ear
those things sold for like two or three
thousand dollars a piece and it was very
expensive to use them I remember when I
finally got my first cell phone I never
wanted to use it because it was too
expensive I would say hey call me on the
weekend I can't talk I'm on my cell
phone it's too expensive right but but
the reason a lot of people didn't buy
the first cell phones is because they
were too expensive they couldn't afford
it the reason everybody has cell phones
now is because they're so cheap the
price going down is what motivated more
people to buy you buy things when you
can afford them and if you can't afford
the current price if the price just goes
up well then you really can't afford it
you know same thing the first television
set probably costs the same as an
automobile who bought the first
television set some really rich guy it
was a novelty but it was a gigantic
piece of furniture with like a two inch
screen and you probably had two channels
and you had two or three hours a day
where you could watch it I mean it was
you know
people bought televisions because they
got cheaper now people Buy televisions
all the time everybody knows if I buy a
television today
a year from now I could buy a better one
for less money everybody knows that but
they buy them anyway the same thing with
a computer or or is every every piece of
electronics that you buy if you just
don't buy it and buy it in a year or two
you'll get it cheaper but people buy
them anyway because they want to use
them now like I remember the first time
I saw
a uh a high def television set
um years and years ago it was in like a
Best Buy or something I walked in I saw
it and I was really amazed at the
clarity I mean to me it was like looking
you know looking through a window I was
like it was because I had never seen
high def before until I went into the
store I was just used to the you know
the old tubes that we had
I really like that television set but I
didn't buy one even though I liked it
and I wanted it because it was like ten
thousand dollars back in the back then
that was you know I mean I could have
bought a nice car for that
and so I didn't buy it because it was
too much money but I'm some guy that was
a lot richer than me he bought it and he
and he gave those companies money that
they could use to figure out how to make
them cheaper and because the price went
down they're now so cheap I got those
things in every room in my house and so
does everybody else I mean you got
people now that are living on welfare
that got high definition
TVs I mean it's because the price came
down you know come if you own a business
and and and you really want to
incentivize people to come in and Shop
what do you do you have a sale you lower
the price hey I'm lowering the price 10
off 20 off now people you know they want
to shop like why does everybody come to
the stores on Black Friday because they
lowered the price that's because they
raised the price so it's just complete
BS that people will stop spending if
prices go down no no they'll spend more
because they can afford to buy more
they'll buy more stuff at lower prices
okay I want to start putting all these
pieces together because I the I never
intended to get into Financial content
if I'm honest it was only when covid
kicked off and I got really worried
about people that I knew and loved we're
gonna get mowed over uh and then the
more I got into it the more I realized
that the what people think the economy
is and what the economy actually is are
wildly different and they're going to
massively impact how you move in a time
of high uncertainty like what we're
living through right now so I'm going to
paint a narrative based on everything
I've heard you say and and what I know
generally about the economy let me know
if I get this right because if I get
this right uh it it's a very worrisome
about where we go from here and B it
will certainly inform how people respond
so the economy seems to be something
like this overtime Innovation is going
to drive the price down the government
is always looking for ways to tax people
to give them what they want because very
much the government certainly a modern
government certainly the US government
government in modern times I will say
that panders to the voters in order to
get reelected they have to get reelected
every two years so they want to give
them things that feel good in the short
term everybody's thinking in the economy
is very immediate it's what I want now
and a thing that might happen a year or
a decade or two decades I literally
couldn't care less I don't think about
that that doesn't factor into the way
that I think of this
so the government goes okay cool there's
only so much that I can tax people and
by the way taxing the one percent
literally down to zero
um they know won't drive revenues up and
B they also know that even if they took
every last dollar it just wouldn't cover
it so you end up having to tax the
middle class and so
um I can't tax the middle class outright
they're not going to feel good about
that I'm not going to get reelected so
what I'm going to do and I'll even
assume that they have good intentions
but what I'm going to do is I'm going to
use inflation to distribute money more
and more evenly around to people and I'm
going to leverage the fact that
Innovation is driving costs down so that
I can get a a bigger bite before people
feel it I'm going to train people that
two percent that's a good number that
you actually want two percent inflation
so if costs and obviously I'm swagging
if costs are going down by three percent
and I can get people to believe in two
percent now I can tax five percent every
year just on that and of course there's
still all the other taxes in the world
but I can leverage inflation to do that
now where inflation comes from is
printing money period now one thing that
I've heard you say and I guarantee even
though you've touched on it here people
still think what drives inflation is
rising costs when the thing I've heard
you say very pointedly is no inflation
is increasing the money supply and the
echo of that is rising costs But Rising
costs does not create inflation it is a
symptom of inflating the money supply
okay how how close are we here yeah no
you're right I mean they've got the cart
before the horse
when you're talking about costs causing
inflation and the same thing is prices
sometimes I say well costs go up and
that makes prices go up they talk about
the cost price push but costs and prices
are two words for the same thing I mean
one person's cost is another person's
price right if I'm if I'm a business and
I have to buy steel well what's my steel
cost well the steel the guy that's
selling me steel my cost is the price he
charges me it's his price it's my cost
so prices and costs are really the same
thing so why are they going up what's
making them go up when a free market
would make them come down that is the
beauty of capitalism is it lowers costs
in what way how does it lower cost is it
through Innovation or is there another
mechanism yeah through increasing
productivity I figure out cheaper ways
to make stuff we you you build a a a
more productive uh a mousetrap so that
you know you can catch more white mice
for less money or you you know the the
cost of producing a cell phone today is
much lower than it was 20 years ago
that's the reason they're so much
cheaper the free market figured out a
better way to produce and and they did
that because the companies earn money
from selling some very expensive cell
phones they take that money they invest
in research and development to figure
out
you know more efficient ways to produce
and of course as they produce more at
lower prices they also create economies
of scale so that is the natural tendency
of a market-based economy if you look at
the U.S if you look at the CPI in 1900
and then you look at it in 1800 a
hundred years earlier prices are down
about 50 percent prices are half what
they were in 1900 that they were in
1800. the market cut the cost of living
in half you know we were on a gold
standard for most of that time period
other than if you know a few years of
the Civil War uh where we really started
pretty money but in that economy
um you know prices went down now with
technology we should actually be
enjoying even faster price declines in
this Century than they had in the 19th
century the reason we've been robbed of
those benefits is because of government
and of course there is a lot more
regulation now uh than they had that I
mean the markets are not as free as they
used to be and therefore they're not as
efficient as they used to be and
therefore prices aren't going down as
much as they would if the government got
out of the way and allowed entrepreneurs
to be more effective instead of having
to waste resources and time on
government red tape you know that they
could have devoted those resources to
becoming uh more more productive but
there was another reason too that they
were able to keep the inflation rate low
is we outsourced all of our production
to China
and and so we had all these Chinese
workers that would do the work for a
fraction of what Americans would and in
factories that didn't have to deal with
all the regulations of American
factories and so we got all this stuff
coming in from China that helped keep
prices down but the flip side of that
was we lost a lot of good paying jobs
and we ran massive trade deficits and so
now we have to deal with that problem
that we created you know trying to kick
the can down the road because you're
right about politicians and their time
Horizon they can only see as far as
their own re-election which in America
in many cases is two years and as you
said people want something for nothing
that is the inherent flaw of a democracy
and you know that's why the founding
fathers established America as a
republic not a democracy and they tried
to protect the country from the evil
forces of democracy which they referred
to as mobocracy so we're not supposed to
be a democracy for the very reasons that
democracies create the type of problems
that we now have
okay so I think that's a really
important point to zoom in on so the the
thing that I think is is potentially
problematic in this is just the nature
of the human mind and so when I think
about why this stuff starts deranging
it's that you really can get a free
lunch for a while and if it didn't work
in the short term we wouldn't have these
problems but it it really does work and
it can work for a very long time and so
I think it's important for people to
understand the US is a reserve currency
so we have privileges this conversation
only makes sense in the context of the
U.S economy if you were to take this
somewhere else where they can't print
their way out of this it would be a very
different scenario but right now the
world is tied to the US dollar and so
the US dollar is able to create this
inflation actually export some of the
negative effects of that inflation
and so this lets us give people a free
lunch for a very long time and it
creates this thing where the first order
consequence is awesome so take covid I
was legitimately worried that people
were going to get obliterated by covet
and they didn't but they only didn't
because of printing money and so I
actually felt good I was like oh man
thank God like the government stepped in
help people uh the recent Regional
banking crisis right with svb I was like
thank God the government's I didn't have
any money I I had very small exposure to
that that I got out before the the
government stepped in so for me I had no
skin in the game once the bank stepped
in but I was still glad they did it but
that's because first order consequences
are positive the second third fourth
this ah on and on and on consequences
become not only hard to calculate but
they really get confusing and so if you
boil the Frog slowly not only do you get
them used to the problem but you
confused the [__] out of them as to
what's causing the pain
does that all make sense well it makes
perfect sense uh you know but everything
that you're happy the government did was
a mistake
now the reason you're happy they did it
was because of the short-term benefit of
that mistake
but you don't perceive the actual
long-term consequences
of of doing that it's like maybe you
know let's say you're a football player
and you're in a game and you know you
injure your your ankle and the coach is
like look let me shoot you up with this
so you can keep on playing because we
want you in the game and so he shoots
you up with his medicine and you don't
feel the pain and so you keep running on
your foot and you're able to finish that
game but because you did that you
screwed up your foot so bad you're out
for the rest of the season right but
they were just thinking about one game
and so you ran on a foot that you
shouldn't have run on you got numb to
the pain and you know your body was like
hey don't run on me you know go rest you
know ice me for a while you know but you
know so that's what the government does
they try to make us numb to the pain and
then we end up doing more damage and so
what happened after covet I mean that
policy was horrific and and bailing out
the banks both in 2008 and now again uh
with the bank balance we've had this
year all this is a mistake but again the
politicians want to get reelected right
they just want to win this game they
don't care about about the season it's
this game uh and so they're just doing
whatever they can to to numb us all to
the pain you know there's there's a
saying you talk about a free lunch that
there's no such thing as a free lunch
and that's because somebody's got to pay
for that lunch so if it's free to you
the question is who's paying for it
because the food didn't just magically
appear right there is a cost the
government can print money but it can't
print stuff the stuff has to be made and
that's why when you print money without
any stuff being made all that happens is
the price of that stuff goes up right
because if we could just print money and
people could buy stuff everybody would
be rich we just print up a bunch of
money why not give everybody millions of
dollars and we all be rich right no the
price of everything would just go up
nobody would be rich the only way we can
all be richer is if we all produce more
pretty more money doesn't change
anything right you know you're
re-ranging the deck chairs on the
Titanic you need you need you need a
more stable boat so we need to make more
stuff that's how we we can uh satisfy
more demand is by creating more Supply
if we just print money we increase
demand Supply is the same and so prices
go up and that that's the inflation but
yes what we were able to do
is we were able to con the whole world
the Chinese and a lot of other people
into taking the paper that we print
for the stuff they produce
because the dollar is the reserve
currency so instead of actually having
to make stuff that the Chinese wanted we
just printed money and say hey take this
you know and now they took all this
stuff that they made in factories where
you know they actually had to you know
invest in them and people had to do hard
work and maybe they were making you know
pollution whatever but the Chinese
economy expended real resources to
produce all kinds of goods that are
filling up the shelves in Walmart that
Americans are you know driving home in
their big SUVs and what are they doing
what how are we earning all this stuff
the fed's just printing money and
handing it out what does that cost us
next to nothing
and so you know in the short run this is
a great deal for Americans because we
get something for nothing and the
Chinese get nothing for something except
they don't realize they're getting
nothing they think this paper has a lot
of value but in reality it doesn't
because it's an IOU it's a claim on U.S
production but what if you know our
production is going down you know
eventually we're going to wipe all that
out uh with massive inflation when the
world doesn't want our dollars anymore
and they try to cash them in when they
try to you know buy stuff it's like well
what are you gonna buy we don't have our
factories anymore they're all in China
you know that money is no good I mean we
we run this giant Ponzi scheme we have a
33 trillion dollar national debt that
continues to grow trillions of dollars a
year
and we financed It Like Bernie Madoff
did because we can't pay anybody back so
whenever a bond matures we find some
other sucker to buy it and when we have
to pay our interest we find suckers to
loan us that money too but this only
continues as long as the suckers are
willing to keep lending but when people
want their money back we don't have it
you know you know during the debt crisis
we even admitted that that we said if we
can't go deeper into debt we're going to
default because we're broke so all this
is going to collapse the dollar is going
to lose its Reserve currency status
and then if Americans want to consume
they're going to have to produce that
and and and that's much harder than
printing and that's going to mean a lot
of people who are not productive are
going to have to start working and a lot
of people who have jobs they have
non-productive jobs those jobs aren't
going to cut it in a society where we're
no longer creating the reserve currency
they're going to have to go make
something
okay so let's look at historical
examples because if if I'm taking the
flip side of this argument I'm saying
look it doesn't have to end in
dedolarization even if it does end in
dedolarization it could happen well like
it did for the pound where the pound
sort of slowly over time lost its juice
America rose up throwing a couple world
wars that confuse and discombobulate
people uh and yeah you come out the
other side there was no sort of
um excluding the wars I want to be very
clear that I don't discount the loss of
life just looking at the economics that
there was a relatively smooth transition
from uh the U.S or sorry the UK is the
dominant Global power Reserve currency
to the US dollar as a dominant world
power uh and currency yeah it wasn't
actually that smooth and you know if you
look back at the days where the pound
really dominated uh global trade I mean
Britain was an Empire I mean think about
how much influence Britain had all
around the world
uh it's just another country now you
know I mean it's like so Britain is a
shadow of what it used to be
uh so yeah it doesn't have anywhere near
the economic uh or military power that
it once had when it had the that that
position uh so to say that oh it was
easy for Britain I mean imagine what
happens when America is just another
country you know it's going to be a big
difference but I think that our economy
structurally is more screwed up than the
British economy was
um and so we're we're extremely
dependent
on the dollar status now really fast are
we in a worse are we in a worse position
because of the debt crisis what what
makes it worse now and well and the
structure of our economy we're so
dependent this service sector economy
that can't exist unless it's supplied
from the by the rest of the world and
when the pound was the dominant currency
it was backed by gold I mean it was a
real money they couldn't just print it
like we've been doing so the dollars the
reserve currency even though it's backed
by absolutely nothing
really fast so um Winston Churchill said
the biggest mistake he ever made was
reattaching their currency to gold
um out of curiosity I'm gonna guess you
think that was a dumb statement on his
part the reason that he said that I
think is because now seeing what how
much power it gives America to just
print print print print print and this
is this is like the thesis of my
argument you can get away with this [__]
for so long that the people that pay the
price didn't create the problem and so
just emotionally nobody has to go
through that's not quite true you you'll
get increasingly uh agitated movements
like Occupy Wall Street which we will
almost certainly talk about later
because I know that you had a very
interesting relationship with them
um but you'll get increasingly sort of
agitated movements like that until
something happens and either it breaks
or just the the kids that end up taking
over the government they just end up
doing things differently but
um I think that's why he said that was
like oh my God we really crippled
ourselves and we made it impossible for
ourselves to print our way out of this
problem
yeah I mean that's one of the reasons
that politicians hate gold is it forces
them to be honest
and that's the last thing that a
politician wants to be I mean they don't
get elected telling the truth and if
they've been in office for a long time
it's because they're very good liars
because that's how you get reelected but
the public wants gold because we want to
keep uh the politicians honest we you
know I don't think the public
understands gold
no well they don't because they've been
deliberately confused about it by a
government that that that doesn't want
the public to understand it because the
government wants to be in charge of the
money so that they can manipulate and
tax us and and and and and and try to
Tinker with the economy in ways that
might make their re-election easier and
so we're not on you know a gold standard
again it's like
kids at a high school prom they don't
want the chaperones right because they
want to do a lot of things that the
chaperones won't approve of uh you know
so but the parents want the chaperones
because they don't want the kids doing
that stuff that's why they're there so
gold is like The Chaperone to keep the
politicians and the bankers honest
but that's not what they want they want
to be up to no good and gold stands in
their way if you that's why if you look
at you know read for example Alan
Greenspan's essay golden economic
freedom uh and and he wrote this years
before he became fed chairman but he
does a great job of explaining uh
explaining this concept uh and you know
gold and economic freedom go hand in
hand I mean we want honest money we want
sound money I mean money is supposed to
have real value it's not supposed to
just be conjured out into existence out
of thin air by a central bank
we'll get to that in a second so if Alan
Greenspan writes this thing and really
understands gold and understands how a
true uh sound money that is tied to
something that can't be faked uh if he
understands that why when he was Fed
chair did he not Lobby to get us back on
a gold standard
it was a sellout I mean that's why you
know and he he thought well as the he
was saying that he was as good as gold
he said he was trying to manage the
dollar with the price of gold in his
mind it was when gold was at 400 so he
used to say if the gold price is above
400 then I know that I'm too easy if
it's below 400 I know I'm too tight well
look where we are now 1900 so clearly
the FED has been too loose based on the
barometer that Greenspan had back then
but he had some arrogance you know 1C
got into Power
um he enjoyed being called the maestro
uh you know there's an old saying Lord
Acton power corrupts absolute power
corrupts absolutely and so you get
absolute power over the monetary system
uh and
um this is what happens but you know I
know that if I could have a private
conversation with Alan Greenspan he you
know he he would very much like the
country to go back to a gold standard uh
he doesn't he's never repudiated a
single word that he wrote in that essay
gold and economic freedom in fact I I
was speaking to Ron you know Ron Paul
about who had a birthday the other day
um uh but Ron told me of a story where
he was talking to a Greenspan uh in the
halls of Congress and he had the Atlas
Shrug book or uh uh capitalism the new
own the the capitalism the unknown ideal
and uh he asked Greenspan you know Point
Blank hey I've got this book you know
your your article is in here golden
economic freedom
you know Israel you know do you want to
you know uh retract any of that right
because now you're saying things and he
told
uh Ron Paul nope I wouldn't change a
word so he still believed it you know
regardless of the public Persona he
still knew it he believed it you know
that's why he was in many ways a
hypocrite but as bad as Greenspan was
and of course when I was forecasting in
2008 financial crisis for years and
years for most of those years Greenspan
was fed chairman and so I always blamed
the crisis on Greenspan not necessarily
Bernanke because he inherited the bubble
uh but uh uh uh uh Greenspan inflated it
now he was oblivious to it and of course
everything Bernanke did in the aftermath
of the financial crisis was a mistake
and we're paying for that mistake and
we're gonna pay for that mistake uh but
Greenspan started it you know and you
know so I I I said he was the Ace of
Spades in the in the in the in the in
the uh you know deck of cards trying to
figure out who caused the 2008 financial
crisis you know I wanted to go to
Congress and testify because they had a
hearing on why we had a financial crisis
and I was like you know a kid in class
pick me pick me right because I had been
warning about I wrote a book forecasting
it I mean it basically happened the way
I said it would for the exact reasons
that I that I said it would in fact I
even helped set up a hedge fund that was
short the subprime market I was you know
got as many people as I could the short
sub Prime in 2006 and then it blew up in
in
200 and seven but I knew exactly why we
had a financial crisis I knew exactly
what caused it and so I wanted to go to
Congress and testify but they wouldn't
let me instead said they had a bunch of
people that didn't predict a crisis that
had no idea that it was coming that were
completely blindsided by the crisis and
then they blamed it on the go on the
free at the free market they blamed it
on the lack of Regulation they blamed it
on everything that had nothing to do
with it it was the FED it was Fanny it
was all these government agencies that
caused the problem that's how I knew it
was coming that's how I knew exactly you
know the consequences because I
understood the mistakes that they were
making but the people who testified at
that hearing made the mistakes they had
no idea why we actually had a crisis but
the real purpose of the hearing was not
to find out why we had a crisis but to
blame it on uh private sector so that we
could use that as an excuse to create
even more power for the government and
the Federal Reserve that collectively
caused that crisis and based on what
they did in the aftermath
uh we're gonna have an even worse one
but that that was the impetus for the
Occupy Wall Street because if you
remember
um everybody was protesting all the
bailouts and what was going on and you
had this group of people in New York
that were mad at the private sector for
for getting bailed out for take you know
and and I wanted to go down there and
say you're mad at the wrong uh you know
Target you should be down in Washington
on Pennsylvania Avenue you should be
protesting the White House Congress the
FED don't produce don't protest the
companies that took the bailouts protest
the government that gave them the
bailouts I mean who's not going to take
a bailout if it's offered to you right
it's like if you know if somebody offers
your kid a bunch of candy and then your
kid eats it I mean yeah what kid's not
gonna eat candy you blame the guy the
game all that candy
you know and so I said you know that
that's how I went down there to say look
don't protest capitalism capitalism is
the solution to the problems that you're
worried about protest government protest
socialism the central Bankers they're
your enemy not private businessmen
okay
um having seen you debate people down at
Occupy Wall Street I can say that at
least people that were a part of that
movement and probably people that are a
part of that a very similar Vibe now
would all disagree uh for one very
simple reason capitalism is evil it
concentrates the money in the hands of a
very few who have who have effectively
stolen it from people either through
back you know Ally dealings back
government
um I don't know if they'd use the word
bribe but like lobbying government using
official bribery channels
um and the like and when I think about
that argument which I'll let you
directly respond to but to me the
problem feels like you're you are simply
up against human nature and human nature
is such that I want you to give me
something now and I have a very hard
time calculating the negative second and
third order consequences and when the
second and third order consequences come
people probably they may not even
necessarily be lying although I heard
you about politicians and and they do
well as they get better at lying but
even being generous and saying they're
they're not lying they just don't
understand it because the stuff is very
complicated and I might unfortunately
life has taught me the moment you're
asking the masses to hold a
sophisticated idea in their head that it
it is never going to work and you you
will only if you ask the masses to hold
a sophisticated idea in their head they
will only calculate first order
consequences period and therefore
anything that happens in second and
third or it it is as if it doesn't exist
but then subsequent either years or
Generations down the road you get
[__] obliterated and Ray dalio was
clocked this all of every Empire that
has ever existed Ever every Reserve
currency that has ever existed ever they
have all collapsed but they all collapse
for the same reason and it's what we're
living through right now and that's why
I'm like what the [__] like I don't see
how this isn't inevitable
yeah you know human nature is one thing
that doesn't change I mean we we're more
sophisticated now we have a lot more
technology now but that hasn't changed
we haven't learned from the mistakes of
the past we just keep on repeating them
in in an endless loop uh but yes a lot
of people believe that capitalism is
evil
um but you know capitalism is the least
evil economic system that that exists I
mean this is probably because the
teachers don't understand this either
and so we have a bunch of kids that that
learn uh bad things from teachers who
who don't get it in in these government
schools but it's socialism that's that's
inherently evil not capitalism
capitalism is about Freedom right it's
where uh individuals are free
to transact with one another
and pursue their
interests their self-interest
uh without government uh intervention
now people think well then people are
just going to exploit other people and
take advantage of them and screw them
over
but that's not how it works
because
if I want to enrich myself in a system
of voluntary
interaction I I can't force anybody to
buy my products if I want somebody's
money I have to earn their money I can't
force them I'm not in government I can't
tax them I can't take stuff from them
against their will I have to convince
them that it's in their self-interest to
buy what I want to sell if I want to
hire somebody I have to pay them more
than anybody else is willing to pay them
or I have to give them a combination of
pay and benefits and a work environment
where they voluntarily accept my offer
of employment I can't constrict them
into service like the government at a
draft I can't force you to work for me I
have to give you a deal that you decide
to take because it's better than
somebody else's deal
and so everybody is acting with one
another voluntarily
capitalists the way you get rich is I
try to figure out hey what is something
that would make everybody's life better
what do we what do we need that a lot of
people don't have and if they had it
their life would be better and then I'd
come up with something or maybe I'd come
up with something you didn't even
realize you wanted it until I showed it
to you and then when you saw it Oh my
God my life would be so much better if I
had that and then you buy it from me and
I get rich because I made your life
better I'm getting rewarded for
improving your life that's capitalism we
all get rewarded for making everybody
else lives better and it's all about
voluntary exchange and interacting
there's no coercion nobody is forced to
do something that they don't want to do
compare that to
Socialism or government
the government forces people to do stuff
whether they want to do it or not here's
this law you you have to abide by that
you can't do this you must do that you
have to pay that you can't do this you
know this is coercion this is force and
the government can say and we're going
to take all this money away from you we
don't have to earn your money we're just
taking it and if you don't give it to us
we're going to put you in jail
you know there's no businessman that can
put you in jail if you don't buy their
product or accept their employment offer
they have to they have to entice you to
buy their stuff uh and so I want to live
in a world where people have to win my
business right where they have to
improve my life not not where they can
ruin my life and put me in jail if I
don't if I don't do what they tell them
to do so that that that's socialism and
you know when people think well this
people are inherently evil they're not
gonna they're gonna cheat they're gonna
try to rip me off and give me you know
poison food and you know the shoddy
merchandise some people will do that
right some people are going to cut
corners and and try to you know pull a
fast one and you know some people will
will commit fraud in the marketplace
they'll lie about something but those
people are not going to be hugely
successful businessmen the free market
will will you know we'll weed them out
they'll go out of business people will
you know tell their friends and they'll
get bad reviews and eventually they're
going to go away they may make some
money in the short run but if you want
to build a good reputation and have a
lasting business you don't do it by
ripping off your customers you do it by
serving your customers so they keep
coming back and they don't go to your
competitor but yes there's going to be
some bad apples in capitalism but you
know what there's even more bad apples
in socialism why people think that
businessmen are greedy but they trust
politicians those people in government
are as greedy as anybody they want to
make money too but now they have power
over you now they can make money through
corruption through graft and if you want
to look at these socialist countries who
are the wealthiest people the people
that work for government they have all
the money they have all the stuff
there's a huge divide they say oh it's
going to be you know equal everybody's
going to be equal yeah everybody is
equally poor except that people who work
for government and they're rich and they
and they get rich by stealing money from
the public but in in capitalism people
get rich by serving the public and
there's a much better distribution of
wealth in capitalism than socialism
because you have a middle class I mean
capitalism created the American middle
class without capitals they wouldn't
have been a middle class right there
just been a bunch of poor people and
then some rich bureaucrats at the top
that were sucking uh the lifeblood out
of out of everybody else
for the average person today that does
not feel true for the average person
today who economic Mobility has begun to
decrease and look I doubt you know much
about my background I I could not be a
more DieHard capitalist but I want to
make sure that we steal man the flip
side of that coin so for somebody that's
growing up now
um call it just bad luck of timing and
Boomers created a system that just
drained the wealth they've trapped it
and it's not getting back into the
system whatever
reasoning ends up being the right
analysis and the final look at this but
nonetheless economic Mobility has scaled
back you get people like Ray dalio who I
think has looked at this problem more
closely than just about anybody and he's
like look we we do need to make changes
to the system otherwise you're just
going to keep getting this massive
divide and for people familiar with the
Ginny coefficient if you want people to
fight then have people that have massive
wealth and people with no wealth be next
to each other because all you care about
is what your neighbor has and so that's
what we're getting right now right so
people are just like [__] this guy like
he's got so much money Elon Musk he's
making you know whatever he's worth 160
billion dollars he's hoarding that money
that's all money that that would have
gone to me but now I'm not getting it
because this [__] has all that money
and so I I think they're they have
identified the wrong solution but
they're not wrong that there's a problem
like growing up in the 80s I really felt
like I could do anything and now my life
becomes proof that that's true I did not
grow up with money but I have made a lot
of money
you don't get rich by hoarding your
money because if your money is hoarded
it doesn't grow the way people get
risked is by investing their money by
creating economic growth uh by producing
more products providing more employment
so the last thing you want to do is take
that wealth away from the rich because
they use it so productively they're not
just sitting on a pile of cash in their
backyard their their wealth is out there
working and and growing the economy but
you know the reason that we have so much
less upward Mobility than we could have
is because of all the roadblocks that
government has placed in people's paths
that wouldn't be there but for
government I mean it's very hard now for
someone just to get a job because we've
made it so difficult to employ people if
you want to go out and hire people the
government says well here's a minimum
wage you can't hire somebody if they're
if they have very low skills and they're
worth less than the minimum wage so
immediately you price a lot of people
out of the labor market because they're
not worth the minimum wage otherwise you
might hire them if you could do it at
four dollars an hour but you won't do it
at nine dollars an hour now you might
say well why would somebody work at four
dollars an hour well they have no skills
and they want to get some skills and if
you have no skills and you want to get
some skills the best way to get them is
to get a job and learn them and so you
know many cases you're paying somebody
four dollars an hour to teach them how
to do something but once they learn how
to do it then that you have to pay them
more money or they're going to quit and
they're going to go someplace else but
we also have all these employment taxes
that increase uh employment costs make
it more expensive to hire people so
security unemployment and then we also
Empower workers where you can sue your
boss eight ways from Sunday I mean one
of the easiest things to do in America
is Sue your boss and and that means that
people are reluctant to hire who the
hell wants to get sued and so a lot of
fewer people get hired because the the
employer doesn't want to take doesn't
want to risk a lawsuit and this is
particularly problematic for minorities
you know who may have a greater tendency
to sue because they can bring up
discrimination and stuff like that it's
so easy easy to claim oh I I got fired
because I'm African-American or I didn't
get promoted because I'm a woman or I
was handicapped I mean there's different
things you could say or somebody
insulted me at work I mean so employers
want to
reduced our legal liability and they do
that by hiring fewer people by
Outsourcing to other countries by
automating where they might prefer a
human but you know the computer can't
sue them so the government has just made
it very difficult for people to climb up
the economic ladder because in many
cases the first few rungs of that ladder
have been destroyed by the government
and and so if we could just have a free
country
you know when my grandfather came to
this country that was didn't have any of
these laws there was no minimum wage
there was no welfare there was no
unemployment there was no social
security he came with nothing he didn't
even speak the language he was like 12
or 13 but he got a job right away and
then eventually he had his own little
business and he employed people but you
know he didn't have to do all this with
his employees either I mean I don't even
think he kept track of how much money he
made because why keep track there was no
taxes to pay it was a free country right
you could you can concentrate on running
your business not figuring out how much
you had to cut the government in on the
only taxes were sales taxes
my grandma your grandfather okay so
they're talking about there was no tax
not it was back well they they didn't
have income taxes they didn't have
social security taxes uh you know all
the only taxes you had it was like a
tariff you didn't even see the tariffs
right because they were they were
embedded in the products and the cities
the locals you know they did have
um uh like sales tax but that's it
that's all there was nobody had to fill
out forms nobody had any money taking
out of their paycheck I mean that's
that's what America used to be like and
people weren't starving you know people
weren't people weren't dying for lack of
medical care doctor if you didn't have
money doctors worked for nothing you
know I mean it was it it it was we ran
great government was Tiny you know a
hundred years ago you know 1900 1890
1910 uh you know now we didn't have as
much technology then as we have now but
you know can you imagine if if the
government had stayed in the same
relative size that it was in 1900 if we
never had an income tax corporate income
tax personal income tax we never had all
these government programs Social
Security Medicare Medicaid Obamacare
right if we had just stayed the same
you wouldn't even recognize America
today we would be so wealthy it would be
unrecognizable the living standard of
the average American uh would be unlike
anything that that we see today on Earth
uh but we were robbed of all of those
benefits because we we we gave up on on
capitalism and we went all in on almost
on socialism and we really transformed
the nation uh and and we've all suffered
whether we realize it or not
Okay so
I am hearing this uh as somebody who is
very skeptical of capitalism I'm
thinking law of the Jungle is the strong
will do what they will and the weak will
suffer as they must and the whole idea
behind a government is that you're going
to protect the smaller person you're
going to create the environment where
they can be successful
and what I hear you saying is that oh
everybody is so magically kind that if
we had a true
um capitalist Society doctors will take
care of the sick for free nobody's going
to die on the stair steps pregnant women
are going to die in childbirth in their
homes because they were too poor to go
to the hospital they look around and
they see a broken they see us in late
stage capitalism we tried it Peter and
it led to derangement it led to evil
Behavior if it wasn't for things like
Obamacare just the number of people that
would be dying in the streets this is
crazy you're just a rich guy speaking
your book right now again that's just
government lies I mean you know we the
the most the freest period of time in
American history really was from the end
of the Civil War to the beginning of the
first war first world war that was
really when we were the freest right no
more slavery so African-Americans were
were were had been freed
um and we were on a very very solid gold
standard during that period of time that
was the Industrial Revolution you've
never seen a period of time where real
incomes Rose faster where real GDP grew
faster than during during those years
and that's when we had the least amount
of government really uh in in history
look the conditions to achieve success
exist naturally
all the government can do is diminish
those conditions by imposing barriers
now it's not that I'm saying hey we
shouldn't have any laws yeah I'm you
know the local governments yes should it
be illegal to defraud somebody yes we
shouldn't just hey you can you can you
can commit crimes as long as you get
away with it no because
in in a free market
you could do whatever you want you just
can't harm somebody else right so I
can't deliberately uh steal your stuff
right theft is is wrong I have to earn
money I can't steal your money which
means I can't defraud you out of your
money so that's still a crime right I
still want to punish a criminal Behavior
because everybody has to respect
everybody else's rights like my freedom
to move my fist stops at your face I can
do whatever I want with my fist I just
can't hit you the minute I hit you I
violated your rights right so we have to
leave each other alone but that doesn't
mean that if I see somebody starving on
the street I'm going to leave alone I'm
a human being right I I'm going to care
about my fellow men see I have no
problem
with voluntary charity and we had plenty
of that before the government took it
over I mean you talk about doctors
doctors did so much pro bono stuff for
free uh when they didn't have to pay
income taxes they didn't have you know
all these other you know paperwork and
forms that they could actually be
doctors instead of government
bureaucrats they had a lot more free
time and they didn't have to charge as
much for their services but
people should be free to voluntarily
donate money to people in need and help
them out
what is wrong is when the government
steals money from somebody because they
claim somebody else needs it that's
wrong theft is immoral just because the
government is doing the stealing and if
you rob from the rich and give to the
poor it's still wrong even if the poor
need the money the ends don't justify
the means the rich have to voluntarily
donate to the poor which they will but
here is the unfortunate reality of
government uh running charity is every
government has a huge bureaucracy so in
order for a government to give the poor
10 cents they have to take a dollar from
everybody else it's very inefficient but
if you look at private Charities they
raise a dollar and the poor get 90 cents
it's it's a much more efficient way to
help people if you keep the government
out of it plus and this is probably the
more important factor the government
wants to perpetuate poverty because they
want to perpetuate their own existence
so if you're in charge of this
anti-poverty program the last thing you
want is to eliminate poverty because
you're out of a job right your job is I
want more poverty so I can get a bigger
budget and so they design these welfare
systems that create dependency but a
private charity doesn't want the people
to stay poor it wants them to not need
the charity anymore it wants to it wants
to give them a hand up not a handout so
you you want the private sector to be
doing these things you don't want to
turn over this function of government
there's there's a few things that I
think government could do well but
charity is not one of them neither is
education neither is Health Care those
are things where the government should
stay completely out because all they do
is screw it up
okay so what do you say to the people
that are choking to death on the idea
that we were at our freest and you use
the word free us so I don't want to put
words in your mouth say we're at our
best or anything like that but that we
were at our freest from
um post Civil War to World War one
because they're thinking bro we didn't
even have civil rights like this is
crazy like people were being
abused in ways that by a Modern Standard
we cannot fathom
now people we had first of all I don't
believe in these civil rights I believe
in individual rights right everybody has
rights because they're an individual
nobody has special privileges because
they're a member of a group right so uh
I mean I I I I'm you know I'm Jewish I
guess I don't know I mean I don't have
special rights because of my Judaism
um I'm older now I'm 60. I don't have
senior rights right I don't have
different rights than I had when I was
40 or 30. but you know other people that
fall into certain groups I mean if
you're African-American you don't have
special rights because you're you're
African-American if you're homosexual
you don't get extra rights because
you're homosexual we all have the same
rights it doesn't matter which group we
happen to fall into we all have the same
individual rights but what people are
trying to do is get special privileges
from government because they're a member
of a particular group and that's wrong
that's like a that's a faction I so I I
think we're we're actually worse off now
than we were before we had all these
so-called civil rights because what they
really are are limitations on individual
rights because what the government is
saying is you can't do this like for
example if I'm a religious person and um
I don't want to participate in a gay
wedding right I don't want to you know
bake a wedding cake for a gay wedding
and I'm I just religious
the government says no you can't do that
you got to bake that cake whether you
want to or not we don't give a damn
about your own religious beliefs you've
got to do something that you don't want
to do that's wrong you're limiting
individual rights I I if I own a bakery
I should just I could decide if I don't
if I want to turn down your business I
don't want your money you know then get
somebody else to bake your cake there's
plenty of people who will take the money
so I just think that we're we've all
lost rights in the name of giving other
people privileges so the country is is
less free now you know people say oh
it's people shouldn't discriminate well
you know what you have a right to
discriminate you know it's not you know
you can't tell me hey you can't
discriminate against me well yes you can
it's a free country you could just you
know you could do it you you can
associate with whoever you want you can
hire whoever you want I can't tell you
that you can't discriminate against me I
mean it's your business you decide who
your customers are going to be who your
employees are going to be that's up to
you and if you can't if you can survive
in the market can place that well then
you survive you know we we that that's
life that's how you live in in a
civilization today everybody wants to
force everybody else to tolerate
anything that they do
and that's wrong and people don't want
to be offended oh oh he said something
that hurt my feelings off and up that's
life you know I mean you you don't have
a right not to have hurt feelings people
can express their opinion even if that
opinion uh you know causes you to feel
bad about about something I mean that's
being an adult living in a society you
know that you know that you know we all
have freedom of expression we have free
speech that means we could say things
that other people disagree with that
other people think are offensive and if
you don't like that you know then you
got to go someplace else
right I think people are going to be
more outraged by the idea that
um you have a right to discriminate than
they will by you saying that the
government is the root of all of our
economic problems so
um help me help me understand so
my immediate reaction is okay uh
discrimination can get pretty nasty and
there we have seen where people enshrine
that in law and it makes things as from
my perspective it can't be it can't be
in the law so you're right like back
prior to the Civil Rights Act of 1964
you had southern states where the
governments were mandating
discrimination and that was absolutely
wrong right the government should never
tell a business you must have a white
bathroom and a black bathroom that's
wrong now if the business on its own
decides that that's what I want to do
well that's a different thing but
the big problem down south was not that
businessmen wanted to discriminate the
government was forcing them to
discriminate it was government that
caused all these problems not capitalism
because if you're a business you know
you're going to try to appease your
customers you're going to try to you're
going to try to get as many customers as
you want you're not going to try to piss
them off
you know even even if you're a racist
let's say I'm I I'm I was down south and
whatever reason I don't like blacks I
still want them to shop in my store I
still want their money you know and so
I'm you know so but it was these these
government laws uh that were forcing
discrimination that never would have
existed so yes I mean in that respect
um there was less freedom in that one
aspect but I would say that even though
African Americans faced that type of
discrimination down south because of
government not because of
capitalism
on balance they were still Freer
because a there wasn't even that they
didn't I mean that wasn't even that big
a problem back in uh 1780 1790 1900 you
didn't have as big an issue but they had
no income tax no IRS no social security
you know I mean they didn't have all
these forms they didn't have to keep all
these records uh you know they had they
if they wanted to start a business they
could just start it they didn't need all
these forms they didn't need all these
licenses they didn't have all these
bureaucrats they didn't have to hire
accounts they didn't have to hire
lawyers so I think overall
the level of Freedom uh was higher but
yes I am glad that we we made it illegal
for these southern states to force
private businesses and private
individuals to discriminate when they
didn't want to but that's different than
having a private individual decide on
their own if they want to discriminate
that's totally different I mean if you
want to choose to do that then you've
got to suffer the consequences like the
woman I I just meant example somebody
didn't want to bake the wedding cake for
a gay wedding okay now they lost out on
the on the money they can't they you
know that's that business they turned
down I mean there's plenty of Bakers
that'll that don't care that don't have
any problem with with gay marriage I
mean if I ran a bakery yeah give me all
the gay wedding cakes you want I'll bake
them all you know I mean wedding cakes
are like the Holy Grail of cakes if
you're a baker you're waiting for an
order for a wedding cake you make a lot
of money on those things so the more gay
weddings the better if I'm making
wedding cakes but if somebody else has a
moral problem with it that's their
business
and and I would you know look I'm Jewish
if I went into a into a cake I wanted to
buy a cake for my kids Bar Mitzvah and I
went in there and I said hey I want you
to bake a bar mitzvah cake and the guy
said oh I don't like to bake my misfa
case I don't I don't like Jews
I mean I'm okay I'm gonna go someplace
else I'm not gonna care I'm not gonna
sue the guy in fact if there's an
anti-semite I'd rather that person tell
me up front that hey I don't like Jews
so I go and take my business someplace
else because what if he just took my
money and then like spit in the cake or
whatever I mean I'd rather have the
anti-semite you know let me know right
off the bat so I don't I don't work with
them
but you know but we make now no I gotta
file a lawsuit I got to force this guy
to bake this cake I mean it's ridiculous
it's interesting though and I think it's
a sign of the problem that I think we're
really battling and that I'm trying to
find the edges of in this conversation
which is what you are up against is
human nature you are up against people
you were up against the way that they
think the way that they act and when you
get them into large groups you get these
societal movements that um either are
moving in the right direction or meaning
they help more people thrive or they are
moving in the wrong direction and they
begin to curtail things adding back in
the complexity of first order
consequence good like I'll be honest the
first sort of consequences of all the
things you just said uh they sound
awesome like civil rights awesome
making people uh I don't know I'd have
to think about the cake one I won't take
a stance on that but but these things
sound like it sounds right like that
somebody shouldn't discriminate they
shouldn't
um be unkind and that brings me I'm not
I hold on because I'm not justifying my
position on that I'm just saying that's
my initial reaction is I like the idea
of somebody being taken care of the
problem is
where I start to worry about the state
of the economy and and
um there are physics to the economy it
works in a certain way this is all tied
to individuals and how people are and
what they act like when they come
together in a collective is that right
now and maybe always the thing that
we're up against with a movement I I'll
make a prediction every economy ever in
the history of all time will if they
start as a capitalist economy will move
towards socialism
and the reason I think that that will
happen in a loop is as things get better
and capitalism pulls you out of
difficulty and creates a thriving middle
class and things are going well and
things are looking up and better than
ever you're the reserve currency yay
like things are awesome that you start
going ooh but I don't want to see people
suffer I don't want to see traffic
the the inherent flaw is in capitalism
it's democracy so if you have a
democracy and capitalism then you're
going to have that because it's the
voters that are falling you know victim
to the politicians that say Hey look at
that guy's richer than you that's not
fair you know let's take some of his
money and then you're you know you're
you're more deserving right and the
public doesn't get it and and they vote
for this but it the capitalism itself is
not creating the problem it's creating
the the prosperity that enables the
politicians to now play on people's
greed and their envy and all the lowest
common denominator but I wanted to also
you know just talk about discrimination
because you know people shouldn't
discriminate it's bad look everybody
discriminates in in their private lives
I mean you discriminate on who your
friends are going to be I mean you have
certain uh characteristics that you look
for in your friends not everybody is
your friend uh and and you discriminate
you when you when you're dating when
you're marrying I mean there are all
sorts of I mean I mean I'm a straight
guy but I mean there are all sorts of
women that right off the bat I'm just
I'm not going to date you I'm not gonna
date you I might I mean because you have
tastes and you have certain things that
you prefer and you discriminate against
the women that don't have what you like
as a man in in a partner or whatever so
we all discriminate now the question is
well if I can discriminate in my
personal life can I discriminate in in
my business life and I don't make a
distinction if I decide to start a
business I don't surrender my rights
because I have a business just like my
customers I mean
people people you you you you can
discriminate uh among businesses let's
say I'm African-American and I want to
go to I want to patronize a business
that's owned by an African-American I
can do that if I don't buy if I don't
shop at some store owned by a white guy
he can't sue me and say hey you should
have come to my store why'd you go to
this guy I mean you know he's black and
I'm white and you you're just going over
there you're discriminating against me
because I'm white yeah I mean look
there's people right now there's
businesses that want to help African
Americans that are going out of their
way to try to hire them and now they're
getting sued for that it's like look if
you want to do that your business you
can you can decide that that's what you
want to do but you also have to accept
the consequences if you discriminate for
an irrational reason right if I'm a
businessman and I've just got a
Prejudice and so I'm gonna I'm gonna
deliberately not hire people that are in
particular groups because I just
whatever reason don't like those groups
I'm not going to be as competitive as as
people who don't don't consider those
factors right the companies that are
going to be the most successful
in a capitalist system are those that
only discriminate on relevant
characteristics which would be
competence and skill level and and and
other characteristics honesty
punctuality I mean you want to hire the
right people and irrelevant
characteristics what gender they are uh
what what race they are uh what sex you
know but now sometimes they may be they
may be a factor uh you know because
there are some jobs that I might
determine hey this job is going to be
better performed by a man being a man
actually you know maybe it's a
physically challenging job or there's
something about it that you know yeah
men are more likely or some jobs women
you know are are are more likely to to
succeed uh as it you know so
but it's up to the businessman to decide
and then live with the consequences
because the people who are
discriminating are are not going to do
as well no go out of business but you
know what happens now with all these
anti-discrimination laws
a lot of people who otherwise would not
discriminate end up discriminating that
that's that's the irony of all this
because the government has made it so
easy to get sued and I know this because
I've spoken to businessman small
business owners who are reluctant to
hire
uh African-Americans or in some cases
women uh or somebody who's uh you know
where they can tell that they're that
they're that they're gay they don't want
to hire these people
not because they have any prejudices
against them they don't
but they're afraid of getting sued
they're afraid of what might happen if
they don't work out and they have to
terminate them or maybe some one of
their other employees says something
that offends them and then so if you're
running a very small business you have
three or four or five employees
the safest thing you could do is just
hire white men you're then you're pretty
much bulletproof right uh straight white
men No One's Gonna sue you I mean I mean
it's possible but it's very unlikely
right
um because they're the you're saying
they're the least protected group
they're they're the ones you it's very
hard to say he fired me because I'm a
white man
I mean most if no one's gonna buy that
right I mean it's like or he fired me
because I'm straight I mean it just so
businessmen
look at somebody coming for a job
interview and it's just if they're if
they're if they're what are these groups
that can sue you easily because they can
claim you discriminated against them
there's like a big flashing sign on
their head you know don't hire me don't
hire me or you've got to be so good that
it's worth the risk to the employer of
hiring you right because they think okay
this guy's not gonna sue me but you know
nobody it's it's so expensive and these
lawyers will sue you these you know they
take the cases on contingency they Shake
You Down I mean some people when it
comes to uh uh the uh disabled that's
where it's the worst you know it was
much easier for the disabled to get jobs
before the Americans with Disabilities
Act now it's so much harder unemployment
is a lot higher now because that act
made it so expensive and risky to hire
the disabled that people stop doing it
you know but before that yeah people
would go out of their way to accommodate
the disabled without the law
but the law came in and now they can't
afford it so it's the government just
screws everything up they don't make
anything better you know people just
think oh yes oh it's terrible uh you
know if somebody discriminates against
me you know you know what just go out
there and and and and prove to the world
if somebody you know that that you could
do it and if someone doesn't like you
because of your religion or your sexual
orientation it's their problem you know
they're the ones that got a problem not
you and just ignore it and just go on
and and and and succeed because you're
gonna do it I mean people now been
trained to think the reason I can't
succeed is because of racism or sexism
or that's not why you can't succeed
either because the government is making
it difficult or because you're just
buying into this nonsense that that the
the deck is stacked against you you know
uh when you can succeed you know and in
fact if you look at
a lot of African-Americans you look at
the the immigrants that come in from
like in Nigeria you know they're the
same color as everybody else yet they
succeed their incomes I think are maybe
even higher than than whites
um because they don't buy into that
nonsense and well discrimination is is
my enemy they just they just work harder
you know that's what you do you know you
you don't rely on the government to give
you a crutch and think well I need this
government crutch because then you know
then they [__] you so you always need
that crutch I'm going to walk on my own
two feet and I'm gonna go out there and
I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna succeed and and
you will uh without all this uh the
government bureaucracy getting in your
way and these laws these
well-intentioned laws that actually
backfire and make it harder for you
how often are you checking your credit
score afraid of identity theft or
account breaches we all use the internet
every single day for important things
like Personal Banking and remote work so
why not protect yourself with our
sponsor Aura Aura is an all-in-one cyber
security service that keeps you safe
online Aura identifies data Brokers
exposing your info and submits opt out
requests on your behalf or also monitors
your credit tracks your passwords for
data breaches and secures your online
activity with VPN and anti-malware
protection you can try Aura for free for
two weeks by clicking the link in the
description or scanning the QR code
I'm a huge believer that as Kobe Bryant
said you can get so or sorry he said
booze don't block dunks and my
interpretation of that is that you can
get so good at something that no matter
how much people hate you want you to
lose they just can't stop you because
you can outperform them but to talk
about discrimination I think we really
have to separate and this is something
I've heard Jordan Peterson talk about
and it's interesting but I think the
right way to think about it is you have
to it's almost a problem that they have
the same words for when you're
discriminating versus what you're
discriminating based on what you like
when you're talking about choosing a
sexual partner whatever I think
everybody has a type there's just
something that you're into the most
basic categorization would be male
female but even then within that it's
gonna you know go down a list of for
whatever weird reason like you're into
this thing
um so that I get but when it is systemic
discrimination and it is a
a larger
societal echo of what I call school of
fish so it's inevitable that the way the
human animal is we are a tribal creature
we're a social creature so you end up
going with people that you identify with
which often takes on very surface level
characteristics of they look like me and
so you're just gonna see that people
will cluster in groups of people that
they identify with
um so those two things to me while they
probably are born of like a similar
region of the brain and from an
evolutionary perspective they're very
different one is like yes I would never
want to tell somebody what they should
do who they should be attracted to I
think it's absolutely absurd when people
are like oh you're not into me then
you're whatever phobic I'm just like
that is just ridiculous
um but at the same time
good yeah here's an example of that
because yeah I mean obviously to a to a
degree uh you're going to see a
preference that that people you know are
going to want to be around people that
they're more familiar with that they
have more in common with that's just a
natural tendency uh for for a lot of
people although some people might prefer
uh more variety uh in in their in their
social
um you know engagements but when it
comes to employment the most and and the
work sector and running a business
there you're focused on on on profits
and making money and and and how do you
do that well you have to uh be efficient
you have to
uh generate customers you have to get
them as I said earlier to voluntarily uh
patronize your business
and and so there that monetary economic
uh factor is gonna is gonna be more
important than your own uh uh you know
uh preferences or even if you had some
prejudices you're willing to overlook
those
if it improves the bottom line uh it's
only when there's no cost to that that
you'll discriminate for those reasons
and it's the government that takes away
the cost uh of of discrimination and and
a good example of this you know is with
the Chinese when they you know when they
were here in the United States you know
you know many years ago there was a lot
of discrimination against the Chinese I
mean I mean and and but what happened
was
people the Chinese were getting jobs
they were getting a lot of jobs
and people were hiring them even though
they still had prejudices and the reason
they were hiring them is because to
overcome those prejudices they were
willing to offer their services at a
lower wage right they're saying look I
know you don't like me because but I'll
I'll do the job for less money and
they're like well okay you got the job
right you know so the child a lot of
Chinese were getting hired and so the
white men
didn't like this they didn't like all
these Chinese coming in and working for
lower wages and taking their jobs so
they got the minimum wage law passed and
they said look
you can't do that you got to pay
everybody the same doesn't matter if
they're white or Chinese everybody's got
to get paid the same and now that
prevented the Chinese from trying to
overcome this Prejudice by offering
their labor at a lower price and so now
if I'm a white guy who prefers white
guys to the Chinese if I can't get the
Chinese on sale right if I got to pay
the same as the white guy well what the
hell I might as well hire the white guys
and that's what happened and that was
the motivation for the minimum wage it
was to put the Chinese out of work by
forcing the the people who who were
bigots to pay them more money but the
free market was was dealing with the
Prejudice and you know if you're
prejudiced against the Chinese but you
start hiring them anyway because they'll
work cheaper maybe you won't be
prejudiced that much longer maybe after
being around the Chinese you know and
you're working with them and just God
these guys aren't so bad I don't know
why I didn't like them right you're
you're because the prejudice is all
irrational right I mean and that's why
when you say it's it's systemic it's not
systemic in fact there is a lot less
racism and Prejudice today than there
was a hundred years ago and that's a
good thing I think fewer people
uh you know feel that way I mean I
is nobody out there a racist or no of
course and there are races in all Races
right there there are people who are
white who are racist they're people who
are black there's fat every there's
racists in every race but fortunately
there's there's a small percentage
the average person is not racist and and
so the idea that it's some systemic
problem the problem is smaller than it
was 50 years ago it's smaller than it
was 100 years ago the systemic problem
is government that's it it's the welfare
state that's the problem the problem in
a lot of these communities is government
and what they've done you know
government has destroyed the black
family not not uh racism you know even
slavery couldn't do that not that I
would ever defend that institution but
the minute they came up with the war on
poverty under Lyndon Johnson they
started paying women to have babies and
they punished them if they had a husband
they said the only way you're going to
get this money is if you're at a wedlock
and you have babies I mean we I mean we
we destroyed the family I mean it
happened with white families too it
wasn't just African-Americans but they
were disproportionately impacted
buy this then you have the the War on
Drugs that is hurting uh
disproportionately I mean all this
should begin I talk about capitalism in
capitalism
oh you would it would be illegal
marijuana would be legal everywhere
cocaine would be legal these drugs would
be legal and if they were legal there
wouldn't be any criminals involved it
would all be safer it would be you know
the free market they would be competing
it'd be honest and you know there
wouldn't be all these people dying uh
from uh you know having their drugs cut
with something just unfortunately what
Robert De Niro's uh grandson 18 died
because of some bad drugs he had their
you know and if they were legal that
wouldn't have happened to him I mean not
you know I'm not condoning drug use but
I think it'd be a lot less drug use if
it was legal uh than what we had now you
know during prohibition
more people drank during prohibition
than before prohibition there were more
speakeasies in New York during
prohibition than bars before prohibition
so the government made it illegal to
drink and then more people drank but the
problem was that also created the mob
because now you know it was all illegal
so you had all the crime you legalized
drugs you get rid of the crime you know
you get rid of the corruption of the
police force all the all the drug all
the all the drug money buying off all
the cops I mean all this stuff happens
and so much crime is committed by drug
addicts who need to buy expensive drugs
everybody is a victim of the War on
Drugs whereas if drugs are legal and the
prices were a lot lower nobody would
have to commit crimes to afford to
support their habit but I think fewer
people would even get addicted if if it
was legalized so that that you know the
government created these problems and
Once Upon a Time these drugs were legal
and we have much bigger problems now
were legal
I mean why do you think cocaine is I
mean Coca-Cola where do you think the
name came from there was cocaine in
there it wasn't illegal
all right a lot of what you're saying
people are going to think is hyper
counterintuitive bringing it back to the
economy the good news is the only way to
make money is to bet against the
consensus and be right so you seem to
have it's very interesting to me that
you can talk
um in in a very you've obviously thought
a lot about both the economy and human
nature to me they feel like they're the
same thing essentially like once you
understand human nature you understand
the propensity for short-term thinking
not understanding second and third order
consequences wanting your lunch for free
on and on and on the the way that people
act when they're free when they're not
um the propensity for government to get
big that it is going to inevitably
inform the way that you look at the
markets so knowing what's going on right
now knowing that people are getting the
short-term lunch for free through the
inflation of the money supply that we've
just been pumping money into it what do
you think in terms of things like the
the banking crisis are we at the
beginning of this is this something that
is over have we stabilized we have a
bigger problem coming like what what
does the nature of the situation tell
you about where that's going
yeah in fact I'm glad you asked me that
question but even before I do I just
want to just say one thing to finish up
that last Topic in case some people
after they hear me say these things oh
this white guy I mean I'm I must say I
must be I must be a racist look I'm a
very tolerant individual I don't Harbor
uh this any the any animosity any any
racist uh feelings myself
but I'm willing to tolerate right those
feelings in other people even though I
don't share them and I don't think it's
right people have to recognize
if you want to consider yourself a
tolerant person you have to tolerate
other people's intolerance that's just
the reality you have to recognize that
people have a right to be wrong people
have a right uh to uh to to be uh
boorish they have a right uh to to have
crazy thoughts and and to be mean uh you
know and so
if you really believe intolerance which
you should right it then you have to you
have to tolerate intolerance I mean
that's the hypocrisy of the left right
now is they want to pretend that they
tolerate and then if you want to do
something that they don't like they want
to punish you they want to put you in
jail or they want to tax you or they
want to sue you no you have you have to
you have to accept everyone including
the bigots including the racists they
have a right to exist they have a right
to their opinions they have a right to
be wrong and you have a right to ignore
them you have a right not to patronize
their businesses you have a night right
not to work for them you could
completely disassociate yourself with
them or you know you can engage them in
a way that may help them overcome those
prejudices and realize uh that that
they're wrong but anyway let me answer
your question because yes the way you
make a lot of money
in as an investor is you figure out
where everybody else is wrong and then
you take the opposite side of that trade
because that's how you can make the most
amount of money because you've
identified
something in the market where there's a
mispricing because the market is wrong
there's a there's an idea of the
efficient market that everything is
priced right because everybody has the
information and that's all reflected in
price but if everybody is wrong if
everybody thinks something and you know
that they're wrong the price is going to
be wrong either it's too high or too low
now we mentioned earlier the subprime
and and and the way people made money
shorting subprime and not that many
people made money because most people
took the other side of the trade they
were buying the mortgages they couldn't
figure out that about the problem
but you had all these people
who believe that housing prices can only
go up and that these bonds would never
default because who would ever default
on a mortgage because the price would go
up and the bank could just sell the
property and and get their money back
and people they're guaranteed or they're
high rated and everybody believed that s
p or Moody's or Fitch or whatever and
and so you had this bubble in home
mortgages and and and and people didn't
care hey nothing down negative am you
know teaser loan I mean you know the the
standards went out the window because
people just thought that these loans
would never go bad
and to me this was sheer lunacy I was
like this is this is an accident waiting
to happen and and so it was like
by betting against that and eventually
all of a sudden in 2007 the you know the
bottom dropped out because people
figured it out it took a while uh but
when they did uh the mar the mortgage
Market collapsed people lost a lot of
money who own mortgages banks failed I
mean a lot of money would have been lost
but a few people who bet that this was
going to happen
made money you know it made a lot of
money because not that many other people
made the same bet
and and so if people ask me okay well
what do you see now that reminds you of
the mortgage Market back then you know
where is everybody raw and how do I make
money
betting that they're wrong right what
you know what's going to happen and
they've been wrong for a long time but I
think that the big thing now
is the Market's belief
that the FED is going to be able to
engineer this soft Landing
that the FED could take the inflation
rate back down to two percent
and it's going to stay there
indefinitely
you know just like we had you know 10
years or whatever years of uh two
percent inflation as measured by the CPI
that the FED is going to be able to
bring inflation back down to that level
so that it can reduce interest rates
which are now at a 16-year high and
they're still not that high they're
going a lot higher but that these high
rates are just temporary because that
it's enough to put the inflation Genie
back in the bottle and so the fed's
going to be able to cut rates back down
and everything is going to be fine
because inflation is going to be a
vanquished and we're going to go back to
these low interest rates that everybody
needs the reason everybody needs low
interest rates is because everybody has
so much debt why does everybody have so
much debt because interest rates were so
low because the Federal Reserve kept
interest rates so artificially low
it encouraged people to keep borrowing
more and more money and not just people
the government federal government state
governments corporations everybody is
loaded up with debt because the
government artificially suppressed
interest rates had they not done that
had the government not done quantitative
easing not blown up its balance sheet
interest rates would have been much much
higher over the last 20 years than they
were and as a result of that we'd have
much less debt people would not have
borrowed so much money they wouldn't
have started up a bunch of hair brain
companies that really have no chance of
success we wouldn't have these zombie
you know companies individuals wouldn't
have bought so much on credit
they would have actually saved because
they could have got interest on their
savings so we'd have more savings we'd
have less debt we have a much healthier
economy we'd have a more productive
economy but because of what the FED did
the economy is all screwed up
now
the market just thinks that we can go
right back to where we were they're
wrong that that ship has sailed we're
done the the years of low inflation are
over we're they're not coming back there
is so much inflation in the pipeline and
the dollar right is going to start to
really fall the minute the FED stops
hiking or indicates that it's done and
that's going to really accelerate uh the
increase in prices and you have the
world now de-dollarizing I mean we
actually it's sped up the process uh
with the the sanctions against Russia
which was one of the dumbest things that
Biden did was punish Russia for doing
exactly what we need them to do Russia
was holding a lot of its reserves in U.S
dollars and U.S treasuries which is
exactly what we need the world to do so
we can export our inflation and we
punish them for doing that we said you
know what we're going to take that away
from you and we're going to deny you
access to this Swift system and we
basically told the whole world the
dollarize or we got you by the balls you
know we could do the same thing to you
uh you know so that was a wake-up call
for the world we need it we need an
alternative to the dollar
and when they have an alternative we're
Sol I mean aren't they are we're going
to implode so the markets are basically
assuming
that interest rates go down inflation
goes down and so stocks are overpriced
bonds are overpriced gold is underpriced
the dollar is overpriced you have all
these prices that are wrong because
investors are betting on an impossible
outcome because they don't understand
all the mistakes that the FED made since
the 2008 financial crisis in fact they
didn't understand the mistakes that they
made before the crisis that's why they
didn't realize it was coming I
understood those mistakes that's why I
warned the CR about the crisis in
advance and I know everything they've
done since that crisis was a mistake too
and made the problem worse and the stuff
that we did with covid exacerbated the
problem but I think the markets are
going to correct this just like they
corrected that the housing in the
mortgage Market a lot of people are
going to lose a lot of money this time
but a lot of the losses are going to be
in real terms because of inflation so
there's two ways you can lose money
right you could just actually lose your
money right I have a hundred thousand
dollars and I invested it and I've got
twenty thousand dollars left right I
lost eighty thousand dollars but what if
you don't lose any of your money you
still have your hundred thousand dollars
but prices go up five times because of
inflation well I still have a hundred
thousand but it feels like I got twenty
thousand I lost eighty percent of my
purchasing power to inflation so most of
the losses that I think people are gonna
have to endure are going to be of that
variety where they still have their
money but they don't have much value in
it everything costs so much more so yeah
your bank doesn't fail you still have
your money but you can't buy much with
it so it's not you know that big a
consolation to have a bunch of money
that's practically worthless so what
people have to do is they have to
position themselves now
against that consensus
by buying non-dollar assets by buying
dividend-paying stocks around the world
in the countries that I think are in
best positioned to thrive in a post u s
dollar uh Reserve currency environment
because
America has benefited from the dollar
being the reserve currency at somebody
else's expense we get to live beyond our
means but that's only because other
people have been content to live beneath
their means so when America's standard
living goes down because we can no
longer just claim so much of the world's
production with our printing press
other people are going to see their
standard living go up they're going to
consume the stuff that Americans can no
longer afford and so I want to be
invested and have exposure to the
economies that are going to going to
expand as as ours constructs countries
that have you know Freer economies uh
smaller welfare states uh Sounder you
know fiscal policy trade surpluses you
know stuff like that
and I want to own real resources I think
in in the inflationary environment that
we're in you want to own energy related
Investments agriculture uh Metals
Industrial Metals and in particular
precious metals I think that what's
going to replace the dollar as the
primary monetary Reserve asset it's not
going to be another currency it's not
going to be the pound it's not going to
be the I mean it's not going to be the
Euro it's not gonna be the Japanese Yen
it's not gonna be the Chinese r b it's
going to be gold you know because none
of those currencies uh have what it
takes
um they all have problems and and a lot
of people just assume that the dollar is
going to reign supreme because they
don't see another currency that could
take its place they're ignoring gold
gold isn't a currency gold is money and
before the dollar was the reserve
currency it wasn't the pound it was gold
gold was the reserve for every currency
including the dollar up until 1971 and
when with and we did Bretton Woods which
is where the dollar really became the
reserve back then it was backed by gold
the dollar was as good as gold because
if you had dollars you had gold if you
had 35 dollars you had an ounce of gold
you could take those dollars to the
United States and they would redeem them
with an ounce of gold give them 35
dollars you get an ounce of gold so it
was gold that backed up the dollar and
that's why the rest of the world agreed
to use it as the reserve now we screwed
the world over in 1971 we defaulted on
our commitment we promised to pay gold
and then we told our creditors we're
paying nothing we basically you know
just said these checks are no good we
made a commitment and we're defaulting
on it right we and now the dollar went
down a lot during the 1970s it lost
about two-thirds of its value
relative to other Fiat currencies like
the Deutsche
dollarized then why why didn't when when
the USD or sorry broke the relationship
to Gold why didn't a currency rise at
that moment that was tied to gold
well there were no there really weren't
many currencies left that were still
tied to Gold because they were tied to
the dollar and then the dollar you know
you know de-tethered or you know from
gold but what happened was the dollar
lost a lot of value during the 70s right
the the the Swiss franc went from 25
cents to 75 cents uh the Yen it went
from 360 Yen to the dollar to maybe
about 150 I think the Deutsche Mark we
used to get four marks to the dollar
then it went down to like one one and a
half and so the dollar got marked down
oil went from three dollars a barrel to
thirty dollars a barrel uh in the 70s
um gold went from 35 to 800 right so the
dollar lost a lot of value and and that
meant every American got poorer in the
1970s that's the main reason that so
many women started working in the 1970s
you know during the 1960s if you were a
married woman
you most you didn't have a job your
husband could support you it didn't even
matter what kind of job he blue collar
job he supported his wife but inflation
was so high
and people's money lost so much value
that in order to pay the bills the wife
had to get a job it wasn't like oh women
felt liberated and so they decided to
work they were liberated when they
didn't have to work they were forced to
work because their husbands couldn't
support them anymore because of the
inflation
um but the dollar did stabilize in the
80s you know with the very high interest
rates under under volcker rates went to
20 percent you know and Reagan came in
and you know we kind of like kind of
saved the dollar got to reprieve but now
I think the detolaration is going to be
complete because the other thing that
happened to support the dollar
was the Petro dollar so what happened is
we went off the gold standard so there
was no longer any gold we made a deal
with Saudi Arabia right to price oil in
dollars say Hey you know we'll defend
you we'll defend your regime and we'll
you know we'll keep your enemies at Bay
you just price your oil in in our
currency so now all of a sudden we did
create a use for the dollar because you
if you wanted oil which everybody wanted
you needed dollars to pay for it so that
also really helped support the dollar
but the petrol dollar now unless you're
blind is on its way out a lot of these
countries are trying to figure out how
to bilaterally deal oil in currencies
other than the US dollar and and so when
the world moves away from the dollar
totally
then the collapse is going to continue
it started in 1970 it's going to
continue we're going to see a huge
erosion of purchasing power uh but it's
going to be even worse the economy today
the US economy is in much worse shape
than it was in 1970. I mean we we were a
creditor nation in 1970 even in 1980 we
were still a creditor of the nation that
meant the world owed us a lot more than
we owe the world today not only are we
the biggest debtor Nation we owe more
money than all the other debtor nations
in the world combined back even in the
mid-1980s America still had trade
surpluses
our factories were productive enough
that we we exported more than we
imported now we have the biggest trade
deficits in the world I mean and biggest
trade deficit error so the economy is a
shadow of what it was we had much worse
why does that matter what's the problem
well because when you're wealthy I mean
look if you if you get into trouble do
you want to have you know a nest egg to
fall back on you you know we save for a
rainy day right you don't borrow for a
rainy day that why do you build up a
rainy day fund so you so you have
something to fall back on if times are
tough right but if you're broke right if
you have nothing and and you know what
are you gonna do I mean we are
vulnerable we're no longer a
self-reliant the way we used to be I
mean the economy is all screwed up and
and so I think that the decade ahead is
going to be a lot more challenging than
was the 1970s it's going to be a much
bigger adjustment obviously you know
women can't start working they've
they're already working so it's like we
have a spare laborer that can that can
pick up the slack like we had back then
uh so it you know now we have more
technology now that that's a positive
and now the whole Specter of AI that
could help out I mean that could help
increase productivity there I just don't
think it's a get out of jail free card
that it's going to be like a miracle
thing but I think it's going to help
uh and a lot of other technologies that
we have will help but the problem is
government because I'm afraid
that instead of getting out of the way
which is what you need right we're in a
mess capitalism is our only way out the
free market right we could we could work
our way out of this hole right that the
government put us in but if the
government reacts to this problem
with even more government you know more
regulation more spending there's no way
out I mean we're just going to be
impoverished you know you know until
there's a violent revolution right which
you know who knows when that's going to
be can you imagine any scenario where
government actually gets smaller
well yes if it oh only in a scenario
where things get better because there's
it's actually inversely proportionate
Prosperity is inversely proportionate to
the size of government the smaller the
government the more prosperous the
society
uh and the bigger the government the
less prosperous I mean you know all you
have to do look you know you can pair
you have countries where they split it
East Germany West Germany South uh Korea
North Korea right uh you know look at
these countries where you take the exact
same society and just cut it in half and
you have one that's socialist and one
that's more capitalist which one has
more a higher standard living which
which one does better who did better
communist China or Taiwan or Hong Kong
you know China didn't start doing well
until they started adopting pre-market
capitalism yes but they did it they did
it in a government-controlled way I I
don't want to derail but I'm talking
about if you go back to the 1970s and I
and say hey where was it better in
mainland China or Taiwan Taiwan it was
better in Hong Kong why because mainland
China was run by by the Communists it
wasn't until really the 1990s that the
Communists realized that communism
doesn't work right so they didn't come
out and tell the people it didn't work
because you still have the communist
this party but they started changing the
nature of the economy to allow
entrepreneurship to allow private
ownership of the means of production
that's what made China what it is today
it was as capitalism came into sort of
Xi Jinping looked at Russia and said
okay what did Russia do wrong Russia let
capitalism break down the control of the
government we're never going to let that
happen and so he I mean look I'm not
defending China but I want to make sure
that we're taking a realistic look
because remember my thesis is all about
human nature is a thing and if you're
not dealing with that you're going to
get blindsided by something so Xi
Jinping said cool I saw what Russia did
mistake not going to repeat that mistake
and as soon as he realized oh these
billionaires are getting too uppity uh
they're getting too much control giving
too much lip back to the government he
kidnaps Jack ma takes him in somewhere
and like re-educates him and and then
re-releases him back into the wild and
they're like clamping down so I'm just
saying like hey like they that was still
all communism it was communism
leveraging far Smarter Tools of an open
market and all that stuff
but I would I don't think communism uh
the the authoritarian top-down control
that's probably a better word than
communism they never let go of
authoritarian top-down big government
you can do what I tell you and that's
that yeah I mean I'm not defending
communism all I'm saying is that as
China became more capitalistic you know
their standard Living went up 100.
before they did that there was a lot
more capitalism in Taiwan or in Hong
Kong you had the same basic you know
Chinese people there uh but they did
much better their living stands were
much higher 100 I want people to hear me
I I am a died in the world capitalist I
believe in capitalism what I'm trying to
make sure that we chart a course through
here is
um that you the question was do do you
see and I'm talking in an American
context do you really see a path by
which Americans start voting for a small
government my answer is no I don't see a
way to unwind the direction that we're
headed except massive pain and suffering
and once we have enough suffering then I
think that we might rebound and start
unwinding do you agree with that yes
no no I agree until we have a lot of
pain and suffering nothing's going to
change and as long as the government can
bail everybody out by printing money
they're going to do it but if I'm right
and I'm convinced that I am and we have
massive inflation that hopefully doesn't
become hyperinflation but it could
but things are going to be so bad
that people may finally have enough of a
belly full of government that they just
puke it all out and that a message of
economic freedom actually works that you
know some people like me and other
people and we have the internet and we
have a way of communicating to let
people know hey the government did this
the government is not part of the
solution the government is the problem
right that's what Ronald Reagan used to
say right the government isn't the
solution the government is the problem
those are you're not going to solve your
problems I I get it man and look I
believe I believe in all of that I am
totally on that page but I don't I those
are second and third order consequences
and if I'm correct that the masses that
that is a sophisticated idea uh that
you're just never going to get on mass
adoption now I want to be very clear I
am not a believer in Elites get to tell
people what to do just to plant that
flag so here I want to walk through
after you know way more about the
economy than me so I'm going to lay out
a scenario
where I go wrong point me in the right
direction but this is largely informed
by you Ray dalio a handful of other very
smart people who I have been following
for quite some time and have built my
sense of where this all goes
so here is is is a Layman's
understanding of what is a flavor of how
this might play out it's not the only
way that the that this could play out
but here's what I want listeners of this
show to prepare themselves for I live by
a maxim that life is a beautiful game
you need to master it and if you want to
do well in this hyper uncertain time
that we're about to go through uh I
think that you need to understand that
it's probably going to look something
like this and Peter's going to tell me
where I go wrong okay so right now you
you have already done the inflation the
the person has been shot they are
bleeding out but somehow they don't
recognize yet that they have been shot
so inflation is coming for you now as
the FED tries to manage that inflation
by raising rates they're they're
probably going to chicken out and so
they're going to try to cut or something
but the second they try to cut inflation
is going to rear its ugly head again and
then as inflation starts happening uh
and they realize that they're no longer
going to to be able to cut rates you're
going to start raising rates as they
raise the rates to try to Tamp that back
down then treasuries are going to take
off bonds are going to tank you just
tweeted about this in fact I have a
sweet let me read it this is from you
we're in what will likely become the
worst secular Bond bear Market in U.S
history the bear Market in the 1970s
ended with 10-year treasury yields above
13 and 30-year yields above 15 with
today's 16-year high yields of 4.35 and
4.46 yields still have a long way to
rise so that makes sense to me so now if
if we're going to see interest rates
going up people are going to leave the
stock market because it's going to be
very hard for you to get that kind of
yield that you can get in a treasury
bill which is nice and safe just park my
money with the government it's yielding
uh copious amounts of money if this is
uh correct and when that happens they're
also going to flee Regional banking now
this is where the scary part starts as
they flee Regional banking Regional
Banks which are insolvent as far as I
can tell because they are not marking to
Market which you should probably explain
to people in a second so Regional Banks
then are going to be [__] and so
they're going to start collapsing the
government's going to step in they're
going to print the [__] out out of money
they're going to inflate it again and as
they inflate the money supply they're
going to have to raise rates again which
is going to pull people out of regional
Banks even faster it's going to pull
people out of the stock market so
everything consolidates into like four
way too big to fail Banks the stock
market [__] struggles for God knows
how long and now everybody's putting
their money into T bills but that's the
government that you're now betting on
and if you're right and D dollarization
is happening like crazy because and I
can't remember if you said this exact
thing but right now the brics nations
are creating a new currency or
threatening to that's backed by gold and
so now your own thesis comes back to
haunt us As Americans
and people like holy [__] you're
inflating this thing to deal with the
regional banking collapse and now we've
got oh hey this other sexy thing over
here which is backed by gold and now and
because I am a believer in a more
technical future I think people also
going to flee into Bitcoin I get it
you're not a Bitcoin guy but I'm just
saying for a techno person like myself
and for a lot of younger people I think
that will make sense then we'll debate
that later but like they're they're
going to flee two things that they see
as backed by something quote unquote
real we'll stick with gold for now not
to get into an argument and that's how
the collapse happens and and look no one
wants that to not happen more than me uh
but that's how it feel one flavor of how
that could play out what did I get wrong
well let me there's a lot there's a lot
there but first of all I think you
probably have a better understanding of
the problem than a lot of people who
have Nobel prizes in economics so don't
you know sell yourself short because you
have common sense which is which a lot
of professional economists
um don't don't have but also
unfortunately
we actually need a collapse
is so it's not like we should say you
know you don't want one it's like
you know we we don't want it to be as
bad as it's going to be but it's like
you know in California those tremors are
a good thing because having Tremors
means you don't have the big one you
gotta you know there there are are
imbalances that we need to have like you
need forest fires because if you don't
have some then eventually you have a
really big one right so we have problems
in the economy they have to be Unwound
the sooner the better and so we're gonna
have to go through some pain if we want
gain I mean that's just it's inevitable
but let me go back to the beginning of
what you're talking about so first of
all yeah the FED has been raising rates
in an effort supposedly to fight
inflation but it doesn't work
because the only way that higher rates
impact prices and inflation is if they
encourage people to save more and spend
less that that's the whole purpose they
have to that the prices are going up
because we're buying stuff and so the
FED is supposed to raise rates to
discourage us from spending and causing
us to save more so now the savings we
can have you know more production but
that hasn't happened even though the FED
has raised rates the savings rate has
collapsed and credit card debt is at a
record high government debts are at a
record high so the fed's rate hikes have
done nothing to impact savings and
spending so they've done nothing uh to
bring down inflation
what they have done is increase costs
because when prices do go up I mean when
interest rates go up everybody who has
debt including all businesses who have
debt now have to pay higher interest on
that debt that's the same thing as
paying higher wages to your workers
higher rent to your landlord it's
another cost that ultimately gets
factored in so the Fed was artificially
suppressing those costs for years and
years and so businesses were able to
pass that on to their customers but now
that interest rates are normalizing they
have to raise prices to make up so it's
actually actually been adding to
inflation the reason that we've had to
come down in inflation because of the
rate hikes is the rate hikes caused the
dollar to go up because as the FED
started hiking rates currency Traders
bid up the dollar and they expected
rates to keep going up the dollar had a
big rally
uh and that brought down oil prices oil
prices went way down other commodity
prices went down because the dollar went
up that's what temporarily brought down
the CPI that is all changing that's
stopping the dollar has topped out and
it's headed lower commodity prices have
bottomed out they're headed higher so
we're going to lose that benefit we're
going to start to see uh prices rising
again and the rate Heights have done
nothing because the only way we're going
to get to the root cause of inflation is
if we cut government spending
dramatically and that's not happening
the government spending is going up the
FED is going to go back to quantitative
easing they've already showed their hand
with these last bank bailouts and by the
way years and years ago exactly what
happened to these Regional Banks is
exactly what I predicted would happen
exactly like I got the 2008 financial
crisis I nailed this on ahead I said for
years as the FED held interest rate slow
that they were you know this was a
ticking time bomb for the banks because
I said the banks are going to be stuck
with all this low yielding debt and when
interest rates eventually rise they're
going to go broke you had all these
other analysts that were saying oh buy
the financials because interest rates
are going to go up and that's going to
help the financials I was like a lone
voice saying no higher interest rates
are going to be the death Mill for these
financials look people were talking
about mortgages right hey everybody is
refinancing their mortgages everybody's
getting a three percent three and a half
percent mortgage isn't that great
because now the you know the the
homeowners can pay these low mortgages
for the next 30 years I was the only
person out there in the financial
Community saying wait a minute what
about the lenders what about the banks
who are going to be stuck with the paper
they're clipping these coupons for 30
years what happens when interest rates
go to five percent six percent seven
percent and they've already loaned out
all their money at three percent they're
all insolvent which is what they are why
do you think your bank go to your bank
Bank of America Wells Fargo see what
their what their deposit rates are see
where their CDs are they're paying
nothing they can't afford to pay you any
money because they've already loaned it
all out it's stuck so they're all in
solvent they're all going to collapse
what's going to happen is the fed's
going to end up bailing them out with
inflation so you're not going to lose
your your money but your money is going
to lose its value all this is is going
to happen and the the the situation that
you described we the piper is going to
have to be paid here but the best thing
you could do if you want to try to save
yourself financially but also maybe have
a positive impact on the rest of the
world don't go broke don't go down with
this ship get off the ship right get in
a Lifeboat so that when everybody else
is drowning you can reach in and pull
them out right so preserve your own
wealth and the way you do that is take
your money out of the bank you know
don't don't leave it there you're going
to lose it one way or the other
do something with it you could buy gold
you can invest it productively outside
the U.S you could buy quality stocks
that pay good dividends that will rise
with the falling dollar uh that will
also you know go up with inflation
because the businesses you know are
selling things where they they have
pricing power you know in an
inflationary period you want to be in a
business where you're selling stuff that
people have to buy not the stuff that
they stop buying because they can't
afford the stuff they have to buy so
there are certain types of companies
that you want to own if we own those
companies and they're paying good
dividends and you know we manage these
portfolios so you know that's the first
thing we we can't do anything to stop
this right like I was powerless to stop
the 2008 financial crisis but I could
try to figure out how to profit from it
um I can't do anything about this I I've
tried my best to warn people I've been
out there I've testified before Congress
twice I wish I could have gone there
more often but nothing I say matters to
these guys because again they don't care
about the country they care about
themselves they care about getting
reelected everything that they would
have to do that was right for the
country jeopardizes their re-election
the only way they can stay in office is
to do what's wrong for the country so
that's that's their Paramount concern is
is perpetuating their political careers
uh not not helping the country so all
you can do is save yourself at this
point because we we can't there's not
enough of us who are going to figure
this out to to have any influence on the
next election but we can protect
ourselves I mean that's why you know at
my company your Pacific Asset Management
I'm doing my best to save as many people
as I can get them the right portfolios
uh that will allow them to come off of
this like there were people that made
money in the 1970s with all that
inflation most people lost a ton of
money during that decade but a few
people who read the writing on the wall
were positioned properly and they
cleaned up in the 1970s I think the same
thing is going to happen in this decade
I think I'm extremely well positioned
that I think everybody who's been
following my advice I mean sure I mean
I've been giving this advice out for a
while so I've been early but I know that
I'm right and the fact that we've kicked
a can down the road for as long as we
have simply means that it's that much
more important to be positioned this way
because the bubble has gotten much
bigger so yes I had to wait a little bit
longer to get paid but I think it's a
bigger payday because the problems that
I was worried about a decade ago none of
them have been solved they're all much
worse
and so now the Fallout is going to be
much greater and so the losses for the
people who don't anticipate this and and
position themselves properly those
losses are going to be greater and yes
people need to own people need to own
gold I mean I've been operating shift
gold for a long time and it you know
people should take advantage of of that
and buy gold it's still about 1900 an
ounce uh that may seem like a high price
but I think it's actually very low uh
relative to where it's going to be and
again it's not gold going up gold pretty
much stays the same it's the dollar
that's going down you're going to need
more and more dollars to buy that ounce
of gold and so if you want to preserve
your purchasing power you convert your
dollars into gold now and then when you
need to buy something in 5 or 10 or 20
years you you'll you'll be able to
afford it if you just keep your money in
cash you may not be
um this stuff is terrifying and I really
wish that I didn't have to think about
this it is a level of complexity that I
do not enjoy and really want to think
about other things but I think that not
focusing here would be a mistake and I
encourage everybody if you're anything
like me you want to bury your head in
the sand not a winning strategy to that
point Michael burry who predicted the
housing crisis along with you he's one
of the rare voices that was like Hey
this bad thing is coming he just bet
essentially is a way to look at it 1.6
Bill
billion dollars I'll call it against the
stock market have you looked closely
enough at that to know what what is he
really trying to say with that bet
well look he he may make a lot of money
and it's all leveraged so he didn't
basically put up 1.6 billion he put up a
much smaller amount and he's willing to
lose it if he's wrong right but he's
probably controlling
with leverage or options or whatever I
have I don't I haven't looked at you
know the way he's constructed that
position I know I thought myself uh you
know a few weeks ago I mean even near
the highs about maybe I should you know
get short the stock market I'm Ed short
the bond market not in not not in not in
a big way like that
um but if the FED did the right thing
and if they do the right thing he's
going to clean up on that position If
the Fed does the right thing
the problem is the Fed might cave and do
the wrong thing in which case he'll lose
right but I don't know what you know
what the rest of his bets are because
given where interest rates are and where
they have to go and given what's going
to happen to corporate earnings stocks
are so extremely overpriced right now
they have to collapse the only way they
won't is if the dollar goes down instead
right so if the FED is willing to
sacrifice the dollar to save the stock
market and to bail out the US government
then they may do that right the FED may
decide to you know change its rhetoric
and okay we're done hiking raids or they
might cut rates or go back to QE in an
official way and the Market's going to
Rally if that happens you know but in
real terms the Market's not going to
Rally because the dollar I think will
lose more value than the stock market
gains but when you're when you're buying
puts or you're doing some of these
shorts it's it's nominal right that
that's what matters so if if gold goes
from 1900 to 3 000 and the stock market
you know goes up 10 percent in real
terms the stock market got killed but
you're going to lose on your short right
because it's all about the nominal price
when it comes to a short not the real
price so for my money I I know that no
matter what right
the FED is going to eventually do the
wrong thing but even if they do the
right thing in the environment where
they do the right thing the price of
gold is still going to go up I I just
don't really see any any scenario where
it goes down
and I don't really see any scenario
where the dollar goes goes up I mean it
could go up in the short run but in the
long run it has to go down I mean
there's no way this thing is going to
shake out where the dollar has more
value and not less value so I think my
portfolios I think are are more likely
to uh to do well
um and then just being short I mean you
could make money short but you could end
up losing money in the long run
depending on what happens with inflation
but I think that for most people being
long the underpriced assets that will
benefit uh from these events as they
play out is probably a better way to
play it than to just make a short-term
speculative bet on the direction of the
stock market where you could end up
being wrong and losing everything
now do you think that that's true
because getting the timing right is the
hardest of all the bets
yeah I mean look it's very hard to get
the timing right but look you know
I think the market looks weak I mean I I
mean if I had to place a bet on where I
thought the market was going to go I
would I would bet it's going lower so
you know
that Barry's made that bet
um and uh you know I'm not sure exactly
when he put on the trade I mean how how
early was he I mean how you know did he
get it on right at the top or was it a
few months ago and you know is he kind
of breaking even now it was reported on
the eighth I think of August
if that's when he put it on then he's in
good he's in he should be in pretty good
shape on that trade right now because I
think the market topped out about four
weeks ago
uh and you know we're still you know
very close to the highs and so there's a
lot of there's a lot of air
uh to come out of this
especially in the NASDAQ especially in a
lot of these these tech stocks that are
that have had really big rallies
um but again it's hard to know what the
government's going to do and when
they're going to do it to try to you
know put a Band-Aid on this
because they could change policy the FED
could just reverse
if they start to see the markets really
coming under pressure if they see you
know the some blow ups in the banks
again in the um money markets
uh because you know this this commercial
real estate problem which I also warned
about years and years ago is playing out
the way I warned I mean commercial real
estate prices are already down in many
parts of the nation by 50 or more
how did you see that coming without
covid
was were you predicting that before
covid well because I knew that interest
rates would eventually go up because
real estate prices are are a function of
interest rates especially income
producing commercial property they kind
of trade like a bond and so when
interest rates are really low you have
it affects the cap rates on Commercial
Real Estate so people were willing to
overpay for real estate in an
environment of zero percent inflate of
interest rates I knew eventually rates
would go up and then commercial prices
would have to go down just like I knew
bonds would come down and and and so
that's going to put problems and I also
could see what was happening with the
internet and more and more people you
know buying online and so there wasn't
as much need for all this retail space
uh people weren't you know going to the
stores they were just clicking you know
a mouse or on their their smartphone
um but with covet it accelerated it yeah
I didn't see that aspect coming of it I
already knew that it was going to be bad
just coven made it that much worse you
know it just took a bad situation and
and and and and you know made it an even
more horrific situation
but as you know real estate owners are
losing a lot of money on their
commercial real estate a lot of those
losses are with the lenders
because if the real estate is not worth
the loan then the the owner just walks
away and the bank is stuck with the
collateral that isn't worth what they
loaned and now they have huge losses
that they have to deal with on their
books
uh and with all this Supply on the
market in fact I was particularly uh
warning about what was going on with
wework you know back in the day when we
work was like buying up all this office
space you know and committing itself to
long-term leases and then renting out
short term I was predicting the demise
of wework long before demised it
collapsed but I also was saying that how
it's going to impact the property Market
when all their property comes up for
lease or comes up for sale
um so this commercial real estate
problem is a banking problem and the
banking problem means it's an inflation
problem because how do you bail out the
banks you have to print more money
um and and so all this is is happening
but you know the the the residential
Market is also uh completely
dysfunctional disaster what's happening
in residential markets and I I predicted
this years ago I mean like when you if
you listen to my podcast I mean I talked
about all this stuff years ago I mean it
wasn't like I'm reacting to it after it
happens I warned about it years before
it happened so I predicted that a big
problem in the real estate market in a
part apart from all these banks that
were going to be underwater that were
stuck with these loans but I said that
Americans who have mortgages are going
to be stuck in their homes because
they're not going to be able to sell
because the mortgage isn't assumable so
let's say I have a three and a half
percent mortgage and now mortgage rates
are seven and a half eight percent and
they're headed higher
I can't I can't move
I can't sell my house because then I'd
have to take on a new mortgage most
Americans if you're a homeowner your
most valuable asset is your mortgage
right because you have the right to keep
paying that mortgage for the next 20 25
years 30 however many years you got the
bank is losing a fortune on that
mortgage you're making a fortune so
people are going to stay in homes
even if they'd rather have a bigger home
or a different home they're stuck where
they are
now maybe they could rent it out you
know and keep the mortgage but a lot of
the housing stock is off the market now
because nobody is going to get rid of it
because that's tied to their mortgage
and in many cases rents are rising so
fast that paying your mortgage is
cheaper than paying rent if you've got
one of these you know they had the low
was two and five-eighths I think there
are people that got mortgages below
three percent you know during like
Covenant days so those people are never
selling they're they're there right
they're you know if they die their kids
will keep the place they have to keep
that mortgage so you don't have this
housing stock meanwhile landlords know
that those houses aren't coming up for
sale they got a captive audience their
tenants can't afford to buy anymore
because the rates are so high uh so they
could jack up the rent I mean eventually
home prices have to collapse what's
keeping that from happening is an
absence of Supply but at some point you
know people are going to die you know
people get divorced I mean there's going
to be circumstances people lose their
jobs and even though they have a low
mortgage they can't even afford to pay
that right so there's going to be
housing that's going to come on the
market and then the price is going to
implode because nobody can afford to buy
the houses at these high mortgage rates
I mean the reason real estate prices
went up so much is because the the
mortgage rates went down so much because
people didn't buy price they bought the
monthly payment that's what was the
deciding factor on what they can pay and
the monthly payment was determined by
the race now also the absence of a down
payment so down payments went from 20
percent down to zero I mean they've come
back up a little bit I think the average
down payment now is more like five or
six percent but that's like nothing
because it costs five percent to sell
your house you got to pay the real
estate agent the commission but the the
absence of lending standards and a lot
of that was because of government
guarantees and Fannie and Freddie and
all this stuff I mean people were
encouraged to overpay for homes that
they really shouldn't have bought and I
think it's important that people put up
a down payment when they buy a home
um they need to have some skin in the
game uh they need to demonstrate the
ability to save money because as a
homeowner I know that real estate is
very expensive you own a house things go
wrong they're like money pits they cost
a lot of money if you're a renter that's
your landlord's problem you just pay
your set Rent you don't have to worry
about any you know you know
unanticipated major expenses Americans
don't have money for unanticipated major
expenses so the banks did a good job
when they required 20 down uh you know
to making sure that people didn't buy
houses unless they were responsible
enough to take on the the the the the
liability but the government
incentivized everybody to buy houses and
overpay and you get tax breaks and
government guarantees and are you know
so the government cause people to buy
houses that that shouldn't that
shouldn't have bought them but the point
I'm making now is that eventually real
estate prices are going to fall they
have to uh if rates stay up and now and
now now there's defaults now there's you
know and now the banks are going to lose
money on their residential real estate
loans in addition to
um their their their their their uh
their commercial and I think you're
going to see a wave of defaults in
credit card debt I mean right now yeah
credit card debt is at a record high
interest rates on credit card debt are
at a record high it's over 20 percent if
you've got a balance on your credit card
and you're paying over 20 interest and
you have record balance there's going to
be waves of defaults in credit card debt
in fact I think what people are doing
now who have credit card debt before
they default they're just running up as
much debt as they can because if you
know that you're going to default and go
bankrupt you might as well go out with a
bang right the more money you can borrow
while you can the better buy as much
stuff as you can on credit and then
default so I think we're going to see a
wave of default in credit cards and what
does that mean that means the banks are
going to lose because they they're not
going to get that money back they're
gonna have to write off all those losses
so it's just more money printing I mean
this financial crisis that we're headed
for is worse than the one we had in 2008
it's going to make 2008 look like a
Sunday school picnic which is why I
think we're going to have a dollar
crisis instead the FED is not going to
sit back and let all this happen they're
going to think they can make it all go
away with massive quantitative easing
more money printed because hey it worked
before it worked in 2001 you know it
worked in 2008 it worked during covid so
we'll just do it again well you know
what it's not going to work this time
it's like you know you can only take so
much of a drug until you die of an
overdose and every time we did more of
this monetary heroin we had to up the
dosage because we kept upping the
problem but it's so big right now that
if the FED tries to drug us up again the
amount of monetary heroin that would be
required would kill us and that's killed
a dollar right and and everything is
going to come bobbling down
well that is certainly optimistic uh
that all hits a little too close to home
it feels very real that was the thing
that you were saying there about people
defaulting on their credit card that's
something that we hadn't really gotten
into which is you know Rising interest
rates seems from my perspective seems
good because I can you know take my
money out of the stock market or
whatever and put it into T bills and if
t-bills are kicking off 15 like I'm
laughing like that would be amazing
um except for when you look across the
entire economy people have so much debt
the government has so much debt that
when you try to service something with a
raising interest rate it gets gnarly
really really fast think think about
this so we have a 32.7 trillion dollar
national debt which is Rising by
trillions of dollars a year
as of today interest on the national
debt is now the third biggest line item
in the budget so number one is Medicare
then Social Security then interest on
the debt then National Defense we're
actually spending more to pay interest
on the money we borrowed than we're
spending on defense and of course I
think we're spending too much on the
fence I think we should spend less but
we're spending more on interest but here
is the real problem that number keeps
growing a couple of years ago interest
on the national debt was 300 billion a
year now it's over 700 billion by the
end of the year it'll be a trillion by
the end of next year it'll be 2 trillion
what in three or four in three or four
years the U.S government will be paying
more in interest on the national debt
than it collects in taxes so I mean this
is impossible now the only way around
that is
well because the only way around that is
that the FED slashes interest rates but
what if they can't what if they have to
keep rates where they are the government
must default there is no way that it can
afford to make these payments because it
would have the FED would have to print
so much money to monetize that debt that
it would create so much inflation that
it would push interest rates even higher
because the more inflation there is the
less private sector demand there is for
government debt and but the more money
the FED prints to prevent interest rates
from rising the more inflation they
create and the less attractive the
government debt becomes and now the FED
is the only buyer of treasuries but now
it's not just treasuries what about
Municipal debt what about all these
municipalities and states that loaded up
on debt what's going to happen when it
matures and they have to roll it over at
much higher rates what about all these
corporations that borrowed a bunch of
money to buy back their own stock what's
going to happen when that debt matures
and now they have to try to refinance it
and the rates have tripled or quadrupled
uh for them uh everybody is going to
collapse look the problem is we need
higher interest rates higher interest
rates is what is part of the Cure but
it's also
what's going to kill the current economy
you you can't get rates from where they
are now to where they need to be without
a collapse it's like you can't make an
omelet without breaking eggs well we're
going to break a hell of a lot of eggs
because of how much debt we have why do
we have so much debt because we had 20
years of artificially low interest rates
of punishing people who saved and
rewarding people who borrowed and so the
whole economy is screwed up we we can't
unscramble this egg it's it you know
it's it's it's going to be bad but I
think that because it's going to be so
bad
the FED is going to choose what it
perceives to be the lesser of the two
evils it will choose inflation over
collapse depression financial crisis
bankruptcy
um that's why I'm convinced that my
portfolios are the correct approach you
know just being real assets be out of
the dollar be in Precious Metals uh you
know be prepared to avoid the inflation
tax because that's the tax that's going
to clobber everybody
what time period is this all going to
play out over
well I mean I look I mean I I've sounded
the alarm in the past I thought that you
know the problem was was was was more
imminent in 2008 and nine and you know
they pulled a few rabbits out of the Hat
I mean we really uh bought a lot of time
you know when I was you know warning
about the financial crisis back in 2002
and three you know my first book uh
crass proof had a profit from the coming
economic collapse came out in uh
February of 07 and so when I was writing
that book in fact that book was
initially going to be something like uh
the American Nightmare it was going to
be about real estate and why real estate
was going to crash and all that but I
didn't think that that book had brought
enough appeal so I made a more you know
a broader book about the economy in
general and real estate was you know a
part of it uh there was a you know
chapter on the real estate bubble and
and how the government inflated it uh
but back then I I thought that if we did
what I thought we were going to do which
we ended up doing I I predicted
quantitative easing before they even
came up with a word right I knew what
they were going to do I just didn't know
what they were going to call it until
they they did it but I I I wouldn't have
thought back then and I didn't think
back then that we would be here in 2023
and they would have been able to run up
the debt to 32 trillion and they would
have been able to keep interest rates as
low as they did for as long as they did
so that already surprised me but because
they succeeded in doing that they just
made the problems that I was worried
about back then so much worse and so now
I think you know we're pretty much run
out of time I mean we're literally
living on on borrowed time so I mean I
any day I mean I I just think any day
you go to sleep you could wake up and it
could be a whole new world and and
that's why you know you got to be
prepared I mean I you know I I I I know
that I'm not going to wake up to to that
disaster financially I mean it's gonna
it could be bad you know just as an
American
um but as an investor I I think I'm
prepared and I think our fate will
likely be sealed in the foreign markets
it's going to be our creditors you know
during the debt ceiling debate right and
we keep saying we got to raise the debt
ceiling right we have to raise the debt
ceiling so we can keep borrowing right
and if we can't keep borrowing we're
going to default which is you know which
is an admission right that
uh we're running a Ponzi scheme you know
I used to joke you know in fact there's
a you can see my stand-up routine on
YouTube If you Google you know if you
YouTube Peter Schiff stand up but I used
to I used to tell this joke I used to
get a lot of laughs but you know back in
the Bernie Madoff days
um when Bernie Madoff you know when they
were first talking to him the New York
Times you know was did an article and
Bernie Madoff said look you know the US
government's running the biggest Ponzi
scheme ever I mean I'm I'm a [__]
compared to the government right and so
people would say well
who cares what Bernie Madoff says right
he doesn't he doesn't have any
credibility he's a criminal now what I
used to say back then was well he's got
credibility in one area and that's Ponzi
schemes right he knows one when he sees
one and if Bernie Madoff says the US
government is running a Ponzi scheme he
ought to know and then I used to joke
and I said you know instead of putting
him in jail we should make him Secretary
of the Treasury because he would do a
much better job of running the scheme
because I pointed out that you had
secretaries of the treasury like current
Janet Yellen she comes out and says hey
if we don't raise the debt ceiling we're
going to default that's an admission
it's a Ponzi scheme Janet Yellen didn't
say if we don't raise the debt ceiling
we're going to raise taxes so we can pay
our bills we're going to cut Social
Security so we can pay our bills no if
we don't raise the debt ceiling we're
going to stop paying our bills right
that's why I would get a laugh they said
we have to raise the debt ceiling so we
pay our bills or so America always pays
its bills no we need to raise a debt
ceiling to continue not paying our bills
the reason we have a stack of 32
trillion dollars of unpaid bills is
because we don't pay them we we go
deeper into debt and so I used to joke
and I said you know it's Ponzi 101 when
you're running a Ponzi scheme you keep
it quiet you don't tell the people that
you're running a Ponzi scheme so at
least we could have bluffed and
pretended that no matter what we're
going to pay no we told everybody state
that the only way America is going to
pay its bills is if we can find some
other sucker who will lend us the money
and that but at the minute we run out of
suckers and we can't borrow while you're
SOL that's basically what what they
admitted uh so yeah I mean it's a
gigantic Ponzi scheme and I think the
FED is going to
you know try to prevent the government
from defaulting
by buying those bonds and printing the
money and that and that means the
default takes the form of depreciation
of the currency because
the debt is unpayable right the one
thing that you know for sure is the
government's not going to pay its bills
it's not going to pay the debt the only
question is how does it default does it
do it honestly by just not paying or
dishonestly through inflation personally
not paying default would be much better
I mean I would like to see a complete
restructuring of the government where
the government you know cuts a lot of
spending including uh the debt I think
we should basically try to negotiate or
you know maybe 50 cents on the dollar 25
cents on the dollar uh you know
it's better to repay our creditors less
money than pay them in full with
inflated money where they end up with
even bigger losses but unfortunately
that's the path we're going to go down
because from a political perspective
nobody wants to to to to do the truth
now they just want to kick the can down
the road I mean you don't want to Defuse
The Bomb before it blows off you want to
let it you know before it blows up you
want to let the bomb explode and then
point the fingers and blame it on
somebody else and say that there's
nothing we could have done this no
nobody could have predicted this
Peter what would your advice be to the
Youth of the Nation they're going to
inherit this mess
they are though part of the human nature
that makes this problem do we need an
era of austerity
um is it just what you're saying
restructure slash I've I heard you give
a talk where you were like there's
whatever 15 governmental units keep five
kill ten those aren't the exact numbers
but that was the spirit
um yeah what it what is your letter to
to the Youth of the Nation
well I think these are actually in in
better shape than let's say my
generation on at the tail end of the
baby boom I'm 60.
but if I'm right that inflation is How
This Ends
it's a lot of older people who are going
to get wiped out
if you're young chances are you don't
have a lot of savings in fact you
probably have no savings whatsoever uh
and so you know inflation is not going
to affect you in that way and you're
still out there working uh you can you
can demand a raise right you can you
know you can earn more money uh to cover
the fact that costs have gone off but if
you're older if you're retired if you're
living off Investments uh you get
decimated you know a lot of people say
oh you know we're leaving all this debt
to our grandkids the grandkids don't
have to pay it I mean they can leave I
mean in theory we'd have to raise taxes
massively on the younger generation to
pay off the debts of their parents and
grandparents but what if they just leave
you know when I ran for Senate I did
that you know once in in 2010 and
obviously I didn't get elected you know
saying the type of stuff I say right
it's difficult but I ran one time in uh
in 2010 but people used to ask me you
know where do you stand on a wall on
building a wall you know uh between
Mexico and the United States and I I was
always against the wall and the main
reason I was against it is I said you
know if we Build That Wall it works both
ways right it's not just that it keeps
Mexicans out but it can be used to keep
the Americans in that's what scares me
because what if we have to raise taxes
so much on the Young Generation to make
the Social Security payments and the
Medicare payments and all that that they
want to leave that they just say screw
this I'm not paying 50 60 70 income tax
I'm going I'm going to Mexico I'm going
someplace else you know I mean that's
what happens with countries when when
people want to leave because the
governments are too big they make it
illegal to leave you know in order to
renounce your citizenship
there was a form that you had to fill
out and that form was free
then they raised the price of the form
to like 500 bucks now it's five thousand
dollars you have to pay five thousand
dollars if you want to give up your
citizenship now why is the government
making it more expensive to give up your
citizens because more people want to do
it well what if they what if they
increase the price to
um a million dollars well I mean they
could I mean they could I mean they're
forcing people to stay that you know
obviously there's a reason for that and
because they can keep on taxing you
right because if you if you're a U.S
citizen and you live someplace else and
work and earn money you still owe taxes
to America you know that's not the case
with just about everybody else in the
world right we talked about the UK I
mean if you if you're if you're British
your British passport
and and you go uh to let's say Dubai and
you live and work in Dubai they have no
income tax and to buy
you don't pay any taxes back to Britain
you live in Dubai you're still a British
citizen right you can go you know but
you don't pay any taxes to the UK
government if you're not in the UK but
if you're an American citizen and you go
to Dubai and you work right next to that
British guy and you have like that work
for the same company you have this you
know you're doing the same job you're
paying taxes to America even though
you're not in America right so we're
America is unique in that we tax your
income no matter where you are in the
world earning it
um but yeah I mean it's going to be
difficult to keep the young people I
mean they you know obviously it's harder
for the IRS to get you if you're in
another country and you never come back
but I think that
um the younger people are going to
ultimately get off the hook from the
debt because we're going to inflate it
away
but if we don't do that if we try to tax
them they're just going to leave you
know and even if we build walls you know
they'll get under them they'll get over
them I mean it's you know it's a big
country we got two oceans you know if
they if they try to force the young
people to stay it ain't going to be easy
but you know that's one of the reasons
that I oppose you know the government
getting more power over us to to Snoop
on us and know everything we're doing
because if people are ever at the point
where they want to flee the country I
want them to be able to do it I don't
want the government to be able to stop
them I don't want the US government to
be able to force people to stay here if
they want to leave I want people to be
free to go you know and in fact if the
government knows that people will leave
then that's going to keep them more
honest right if they know that they
people can escape the taxes by leaving
that then that's an incentive not to
raise them up too high if they think
that they've got the Border sealed and
everybody is captive well then they can
they can tax even more
Peter that is a sobering uh answer to
the Youth of America you can still
Escape boys and girls don't worry
but but it's not just that it's that
it's that you know they don't have a
lifetime of savings that's going to get
destroyed by inflation and I don't think
they're going to get stuck with the debt
again the debt's going to be inflated
away and so it's come almost like a debt
Jubilee we're kind of going to start
over but when the debt gets inflated
away one person's debt is somebody
else's asset right if somebody owes
money they owe it to somebody else so
somebody is a debtor and somebody is a
creditor so when inflation wipes out
debt it wipes out the Creditor as well
now who is the biggest debtor on the
planet Earth the U.S government in fact
we might be the biggest debtor in the
universe I mean I I think if we can find
life on another planet I doubt there's a
government on that planet that has as
much debt as the United States I think
you know but I mean maybe I'm wrong but
I doubt it but so but the US government
is the biggest debtor and so the US
government actually has the most to gain
from inflation that's why it creates it
right that's that the government wants
inflation they just don't want us to
realize that they're creating it and
they don't want it to get out of hand
but it will get out of hand right it's
like you know you you know it's like you
let loose the monster right it's like
the government is you know Dr
Frankenstein and they think they can
control the Monster uh but the monster
is is gonna is gonna end up beyond their
control
Peter this has been an incredible
conversation thank you for taking the
time where can people follow you
well
I'm uh doing a lot of social media I do
my own podcast I'm going to do one live
tonight as a matter of fact so gotta
rest up my voice because I'm going to do
a podcast after the uh Republican debate
on Fox tonight so at 10 o'clock I'm
gonna go live
on my website uh it's on YouTube it's uh
Peter Schiff Show uh
um and it's called the shift report and
you know my YouTube channel got about
500 and I don't know 60 000 or so uh
subscribers so small you know compared
to what you guys are doing but I hope it
grows and I'm I'm trying to you know get
the word out there on on freedom and and
Liberty and economics and and all that I
do a lot of tweeting you know you
mentioned you know one of my tweets I do
all that myself I mean I don't have
somebody else that does it for me I've
got almost a million followers now
there's a lot of engagement on my site I
noticed that compared to other uh
Twitter sites that even have a lot more
followers have a lot less engagement so
there's a lot of discussion going on on
my Twitter so people should you know
take part in that and to follow me there
but I'm on uh you know the other one's
uh Instagram Facebook Tick Tock I mean I
I'm I have a presence everywhere but you
should try to follow me wherever I'm
active and and try to encourage other
people uh to do that
and you know if you're somebody who has
the wealth right if you've got savings
if you've got a portfolio that is at
risk right now uh from inflation and
overpriced U.S stocks and bonds you
really should do something
and I can help you through my asset
management company at your Pacific Asset
Management you know the website at
xeropak.com and you can go on there and
you can call us up or you know exchange
emails and talk with an advisor about
how we can help you I have five mutual
funds that I actually own and operate
they're all they're available no load on
all of the major uh discount brokers
platforms so you can kind of do it
yourself at Schwab Fidelity you know
E-Trade TD uh interactive brokers I mean
you can get my funds a lot of other
places and I'll manage them for you you
know have a gold fund that invests in
Gold stocks emerging market fund uh
foreign dividend payers fund a foreign
value fund of international bond fund so
all this stuff is foreign assets that I
think will you know help get you out of
Harm's Way I mentioned gold you know
shift gold is the company
where I sell gold and silver I strongly
recommend that if you don't have any you
buy some uh you know not as an
investment but as savings as insurance
you don't put your whole portfolio in
there but five ten percent maybe a
little more depending on your your
circumstances everybody should have some
um uh it's it's you know but more of
your money I think should be invested in
in growing companies that pay dividends
it's just that the US they're too
expensive and I think there's a huge
economic financial crisis that's going
to devalue all U.S financial assets so
I'd rather invest abroad just like
people made a lot more money during the
1970s in the Japanese stock market or in
the German stock market than they did in
the U.S I think the same thing is going
to happen this decade only I think that
the discrepancy is going to be even
greater so I think the out performance
of the foreign markets will be even
greater than it was
during that especially when you look at
where we're starting from because the
U.S market has never been so expensive
in relation to those foreign markets as
it is right now and in fact developed
markets have really never been this
expensive relative to Emerging Markets
so I think the Emerging Markets actually
have the most potential when it comes to
the equity Investments uh so if you're
you know you've got portfolios or money
you should contact me or if you're young
but your father you know or your uncle
or your boss or somebody that you know
you know has the means and they need to
protect themselves and they should they
should they should give me a call as
well so we can do something and it's not
just again I say it's not just so I can
protect you
I think that the country is going to go
through a big problem and as an American
I'm I'm hoping that we can come out of
this
uh in a good way and and so the more
Americans that don't go broke the more
Americans that preserve their wealth by
getting it abroad by owning gold the
better off we're all going to be
collectively you know because that means
there'll be more people who can supply
the capital that we need to rebuild to
re-industrialize uh to rehire you know
if you go wipe if you get wiped out and
you're broke what can you do you don't
have the means to help anybody
uh so preserve your wealth and then you
can you can help a lot of people as you
redeploy that wealth here right all the
money that we send abroad we can bring
home after the crisis in the aftermath
of the crisis we can repatriate all that
money and help rebuild what's going to
collapse in a better way in a stronger
way get a viable economy again not one
gigantic bubble well said all right
everybody if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care peace
for a deep dive on the global economy
check out my conversation with Balaji
srinivasan the problems go all the way
to the Bedrock of the financial system
in terms of treasuries being the new
toxic waste it's going to be at least as
bad as 2008 or probably worse than that